
Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design 23
   104.    The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) publishes the Notorious Nine, a list of common threats
to organizations participating in cloud computing. According to the CSA, what aspect of 
managed cloud services makes the threat of malicious insiders so alarming? 
  A.  Scalability 
  
B.  Multitenancy 
  C.  Metered service 
  
D.  Flexibility
   
105.    The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) publishes the Notorious Nine, a list of common threats 
to organizations participating in cloud computing. According to the CSA, what aspect of 
managed cloud services makes the threat of abuse of cloud services so alarming from a
management perspective? 
  A.  Scalability 
  B.  Multitenancy 
  C.  Resiliency 
  D.  Broadband connections
   106.    The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) publishes the Notorious Nine, a list of common threats
to organizations participating in cloud computing. According to the CSA, which of the 
following is  not  an aspect of due diligence that the cloud customer should be concernedt
with when considering a migration to a cloud provider? 
  A.  Ensuring that any legacy applications are not dependent on internal security controls
before moving them to the cloud environment
  B.  Reviewing all contractual elements to appropriately define each party’s roles,
responsibilities, and requirements
  C.  Assessing the provider’s financial standing and soundness
  D.  Vetting the cloud provider’s administrators and personnel to ensure the same level of 
trust as the legacy environment       
   1 07.    The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) publishes the Notorious Nine, a list of common
threats to organizations participating in cloud computing. A cloud customer that does not
perform sufficient due diligence can suffer harm if the cloud provider they’ve selected goes 
out of business. What do we call this problem? 
  A.  Vendor lock-in
  B.  Vendor lockout 
  C.  Vendor incapacity
  
D.  Unscaled       
   108.    Which of the following is  not 
 a method for creating logical segmentation in a cloud datat
center?
  
A.  Virtual local area networks (VLANs)
  B.  Network address translation (NAT)
  C.  Bridging 
  
D.  Hubs       
24 Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design
   
109.    According to (ISC) 2 
, the lack/ambiguity of physical endpoints as individual network
components in the cloud environment creates what kind of threat/concern?
  A.  The lack of defined endpoints makes it difficult to uniformly define, manage, and
protect IT assets.
  
B.  Without physical endpoints, it is impossible to apply security controls to an
environment. 
  C.  Without physical endpoints, it is impossible to track user activity. 
  
D.  The lack of physical endpoints increases the opportunity for physical theft/damage.
  
 110.    When should cloud providers allow platform as a service (PaaS) customers shell access to 
the servers running their instances? 
  
A.  Never 
  
B.  Weekly
  C.  Only when the contract stipulates that requirement
  D.  Always
  
 111.    In a PaaS implementation, each instance should have its own user-level permissions; 
when instances share common policies/controls, the cloud security professional should be 
careful to reduce the possibility of  and 
over time. 
  A.  Denial of service (DoS)/physical theft
  
B.  Authorization creep/inheritance
  C.  Sprawl/hashing 
  
D.  Intercession/side-channel attacks
  
 112.    In a platform as a service (PaaS) environment, user access management often requires that
data about user activity be collected, analyzed, audited, and reported against rule-based 
criteria. These criteria are usually based on . 
  A.  International standards
  
B.  Federal regulations
  C.  Organizational policies
  
D.  Federation directives
  
 113.    An essential element of access management,  is the practice of 
confirming that an individual is who they claim to be. 
  A.  Authentication
  B.  Authorization
  C.  Nonrepudiation 
  D.  Regression
Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design 25
  
 114.    An essential element of access management,  is the practice of 
granting permissions based on validated identification.
  A.  Authentication
  
B.  Authorization
  C.  Nonrepudiation 
  
D.  Regression
  
 115.    What is the usual order of an access management process? 
  A.  Access-authorization-authentication
  B.  Authentication-authorization-access
  C.  Authorization-authentication-access
  D.  Authentication-access-authorization
  
 116.    Why are platform as a service (PaaS) environments at a higher likelihood of suffering 
backdoor vulnerabilities? 
  A.  They rely on virtualization.
  
B.  They are often used for software development.
  C.  They have multitenancy. 
  
D.  They are scalable.
  
 117.    Backdoors are sometimes left in software by developers .
  
A.  In lieu of other security controls
  
B.  As a means to counter denial of service (DoS) attacks 
  C.  Inadvertently or on purpose 
  
D.  As a way to distract attackers
  
 118.    Alice is staging an attack against Bob’s website. She is able to introduce a string of 
command code into a database Bob is running, simply by entering the command string 
into a data field. This is an example of which type of attack?
  A.  Insecure direct object reference
  
B.  Buffer overflow 
  C.  SQL injection 
  D.  Denial of service       
  
 119.    Bob is staging an attack against Alice’s website. He is able to embed a link on her site that 
will execute malicious code on a visitor’s machine if the visitor clicks on the link. This is 
an example of which type of attack?
  A.  Cross-site scripting
  B.  Broken authentication/session management
  C.  Security misconfiguration 
  D.  Insecure cryptographic storage       
26 Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design
   120.    Alice is staging an attack against Bob’s website. She has discovered that Bob has been 
storing cryptographic keys on a server with a default admin password and is able to get 
access to those keys and violate confidentiality and access controls. This is an example of 
which type of attack?
  A.  SQL injection
  
B.  Buffer overflow 
  C.  Using components with known vulnerabilities
  
D.  Security misconfiguration
  
 121.    Which of the following is a management risk that organizations migrating to the cloud 
will have to address? 
  A.  Insider threat
  
B.  Virtual sprawl 
  C.  Distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks
  D.  Natural disasters       
   
122.    Which kind of hypervisor is the preferred target of attackers, and why?
  
A.  Type 1, because it is more straightforward
  
B.  Type 1, because it has a greater attack surface 
  C.  Type 2, because it is less protected
  
D.  Type 2, because it has a greater attack surface
   123.    Which of the following would make a good provision to include in the service-level 
agreement (SLA) between cloud customer and provider?
  A.  Location of the data center
  B.  Amount of data uploaded/downloaded during a pay period
  C.  Type of personnel security controls for network administrators
  
D.  Physical security barriers on the perimeter of the data center campus
   124.    What is the  most 
 significant aspect of the service-level agreement (SLA) that incentivizes t
the cloud provider to perform? 
  A.  The thoroughness with which it details all aspects of cloud processing
  B.  The financial penalty for not meeting service levels 
  C.  The legal liability for violating data breach notification requirements 
  D.  The risk exposure to the cloud provider       
   125.    From a customer perspective, all of the following are benefits of infrastructure as a service
(IaaS) cloud services  except . 
  A.  Reduced cost of ownership
  B.  Reduced energy costs
  C.  Metered usage
  D.  Reduced cost of administering the operating system (OS) in the cloud environment
Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design 27
   
126.    From an academic perspective, what is the main distinction between an event and an
incident?
  A.  Incidents can last for extended periods (days or weeks), whereas an event is
momentary. 
  
B.  Incidents can happen at the network level, whereas events are restricted to the system
level.
  C.  Events are anything that can occur in the IT environment, whereas incidents are 
unscheduled events. 
  
D.  Events occur only during processing, whereas incidents can occur at any time.       
  
 127.    The cloud computing characteristic of elasticity promotes which aspect of the CIA triad?
  
A.  Confidentiality
  B.  Integrity 
  C.  Availability 
  D.  None
   
128.    A hosted cloud environment is great for an organization to use as . 
  A.  Storage of physical assets
  B.  A testbed/sandbox
  C.  A platform for managing unsecured production data 
  D.  A cost-free service for meeting all user needs       
   129.    What is the entity that created the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements
(SSAE) auditing standard and certifies auditors for that standard?
  
A.  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
  B.  European Network and Information Security Agency (ENISA) 
  C.  General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
  D.  American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA)
   130.    The current American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) standard codifies 
certain audit reporting mechanisms. What are these called? 
  
A.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOX) reports
  B.  Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) audits
  C.  Sherwood Applied Business Structure Architecture (SABSA)
  
D.  System and Organization Controls (SOC) reports
  
 1 31.    Which of the following is  not 
 a report used to assess the design and selection of securityt
controls within an organization? 
  
A.  Consensus Assessments Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)
  B.  Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM)
  C.  SOC 1 
  
D.  SOC 2 Type 1
28 Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design
   
132.    Which of the following is a report used to assess the implementation and effectiveness of 
security controls within an organization? 
  A.  SOC 1 
  
B.  SOC 2 Type 1
  C.  SOC 2 Type 2
  
D.  SOC 3
   
133.  is an example of due care, and  is an 
example of due diligence. 
  A.  Privacy data security policy; auditing the controls dictated by the privacy data
security policy
  
B.  The European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR); the Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA) 
  C.  Locks on doors; turnstiles 
  D.  Perimeter defenses; internal defenses
   134.    In a Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP) environment, each entry in a directory 
server is identified by a . 
  A.  Domain name (DN)
  B.  Distinguished name (DN)
  C.  Directory name (DN)
  D.  Default name (DN)
   135.    Each of the following is an element of the Identification phase of the identity and access
management (IAM) process  except . 
  A.  Provisioning
  B.  Inversion
  C.  Management
  D.  Deprovisioning       
   136.    Which of the following is true about two-person integrity? 
  
A.  It forces all employees to distrust one another.
  B.  It requires two different identity and access management matrices (IAM). 
  C.  It forces collusion for unauthorized access.
  
D.  It enables more thieves to gain access to the facility.
  
 1 37.    All of the following are statutory regulations except  the t . 
  
A.  Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA)
  B.  Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
  C.  Federal Information Systems Management Act (FISMA)
  
D.  Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)       
Chapter 1  ■  Domain 1:  Cloud Concepts, Architecture, and Design 29
   
138.    A cloud data encryption situation where the cloud customer retains control of the 
encryption keys and the cloud provider only processes and stores the data could be
considered a . 
  A.  Threat
  
B.  Risk 
  C.  Hybrid cloud deployment model
  
D.  Case of infringing on the rights of the provider
   139.    Which of the following is one of the benefits of a private cloud deployment?
  
A.  Less cost
  
B.  Higher performance 
  C.  Retaining control of governance 
  
D.  Reduction in need for maintenance capability on the customer side       
   
140.    What are the two general delivery modes for the software as a service (SaaS) model? 
  A.  Ranked and free
  
B.  Hosted application management and software on demand 
  C.  Intrinsic motivation complex and undulating perspective details
  
D.  Framed and modular
  
 141.    Your organization has migrated into a platform as a service (PaaS) configuration. A 
network administrator within the cloud provider has accessed your data and sold a list
of your users to a competitor. Who is required to make data breach notifications in 
accordance with all applicable laws?
  A.  The network admin responsible 
  B.  The cloud provider
  C.  The regulators overseeing your deployment
  
D.  Your organization       
   
142.    If an organization wants to retain the  most 
 control of their assets in the cloud, which t
service and deployment model combination should they choose?
  A.  Platform as a service (PaaS), community
  B.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), hybrid 
  C.  Software as a service (SaaS), public
  D.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), private
   
143.    If an organization wants to realize the  most  cost savings by reducing administrative t
overhead, which service and deployment model combination should they choose? 
  A.  Platform as a service (PaaS), community
  B.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), hybrid 
  C.  Software as a service (SaaS), public
  D.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS), private


Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security 51
  
 110.    In protections afforded to personally identifiable information (PII) under the U.S. Gramm-
Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA), the subject must  in order to prevent the vendor from 
sharing their personal data.
  A.  Opt in 
  
B.  Opt out
  C.  Undergo screening
  
D.  Provide a biometric template
  
 111.    The European Union (EU), with its implementation of privacy directives and regulations,
treats individual privacy as .
  
A.  A passing fad
  B.  A human right
  C.  A legal obligation 
  
D.  A business expense
  
 112.    If your organization collects/creates privacy data associated with European Union (EU) 
citizens and you operate in the cloud, you must prevent 
 your provider from storing/t
moving/processing that data where?
  A.  Argentina
  
B.  The United States 
  C.  Japan 
  
D.  Israel
  
 113.    European Union (EU) personal privacy protections include the right to be
.
  
A.  Secure
  
B.  Delivered 
  C.  Forgotten 
  
D.  Protected
  
 114.    The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) has developed a model for cloud privacy frameworks 
called the Privacy Level Agreement (PLA). Why might a cloud service provider be reluctant 
to issue or adhere to a PLA? 
  A.  A PLA might limit the provider’s liability.
  B.  A PLA would force the provider to accept more liability. 
  C.  A PLA is nonbinding.
  D.  A PLA is not enforceable.
52 Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security
  
 115.    The Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM) lists security controls 
from all the following frameworks  except . 
  
A.  ISACA’s Control Objectives for Information and Related Technology (COBIT)
  
B.  Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) 
  C.  The Capability Maturity Model (CMM)
  
D.  International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 27001
  
 116.    The Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM) lists security controls 
from all the following laws  except . 
  A.  Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
  
B.  Family Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)
  C.  Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) 
  
D.  Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA)
  
 117.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools might be used to protect all the following assets
except .
  
A.  A trusted device 
  
B.  Proprietary software 
  C.  Medical records 
  D.  Financial data       
  
 118.    Deploying digital rights management (DRM) tools in a bring-your-own-device (BYOD) 
environment will require . 
  
A.  User consent and action
  
B.  Enhanced security protocols
  C.  Use of the cloud 
  D.  Newer, upgraded devices
  
 119.    Deploying digital rights management (DRM) tools in a bring-your-own-device (BYOD) 
environment will require . 
  
A.  A uniform browser installation 
  
B.  Platform-agnostic solutions
  C.  Turnsti les
  D.  A secondary business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) vendor
   120.    The Cloud Security Alliance Cloud Controls Matrix (CSA CCM) addresses all the
following security architecture elements except .
  A.  Physical security
  B.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
  C.  Application security
  D.  Business drivers
Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security 53
  
 121.    DRM requires that every data resource be provisioned with . 
  
A.  A tracking device
  
B.  An access policy
  C.  A hardware security module (HSM) 
  
D.  A biometric system
   
122.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools can be combined with  to enhance 
security capabilities. 
  A.  Roaming identity services (RIS)
  B.  Egress monitoring solutions (DLP) 
  C.  Internal hardware settings (BIOS) 
  D.  The TEMPEST program
   
123.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools should enforce , which is the 
characteristic of access rights following the object, in whatever form or location it might
be or move to. 
  
A.  Continuous audit trail
  
B.  Limiting printing output
  C.  Persistence 
  D.  Automatic expiration
   
124.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools should enforce , which is the practice of 
capturing all relevant system events.
  A.  Continuous audit trail
  
B.  Limiting printing output
  C.  Persistence 
  D.  Automatic expiration
   
125.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools should enforce , which is the capability 
to revoke access based on the decision of the object owner or an administrator action. 
  A.  Integration with email filtering engines
  
B.  Disabling screencap capabilities
  C.  Continuous audit trail
  D.  Dynamic policy control
   126.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools should enforce , which is the revocation
of access based on time. 
  A.  Persistence
  B.  Disabling screencap capabilities
  C.  Automatic expiration
  D.  Dynamic policy control
54 Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security
  
 127.    Digital rights management (DRM) tools should enforce , which is interoperability 
with the organization’s other access control activities.
  A.  Persistence
  
B.  Support for existing authentication security infrastructure
  C.  Continuous audit trail
  
D.  Dynamic policy control
   
128.    In a data retention policy, what is perhaps the most 
 crucial element?t
  
A.  Location of the data archive
  B.  Frequency of backups
  C.  Security controls in long-term storage
  D.  Data recovery procedures
   
129.  is the practice of taking data out of the production environment and putting it 
into long-term storage.
  A.  Deletion 
  
B.  Archiving
  C.  Crypto-shredding
  
D.  Storing
   130.    In general, all policies within an organization should include each of the following
elements except . 
  
A.  The date on which the policy will expire
  
B.  The assignment of an entity to review the applicability of the possibility occasionally
  C.  The assignment of an entity to monitor and maintain the process described in the
policy
  D.  A list of the laws, regulations, practices, and/or standards that drove the creation of 
the policy
   1 31.    The goals of secure sanitization (or “data destruction”) include all of the following except
. 
  
A.  Removing data objects or files
  B.  Minimizing or eliminating data remanence 
  C.  Removing pointers and metadata about specific files or objects 
  D.  Creating a secure, archived copy for business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/
DR) purposes       
   132.    Why is deleting a file or object insufficient for secure sanitization purposes?
  A.  Drives and disks must be demagnetized for true secure destruction.
  B.  Physical destruction is the only acceptable method of secure sanitization.
  C.  Deletion usually only removes pointers or indicators of file location. 
  D.  Only administrators should be allowed to delete files or objects.       
Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security 55
   
133.    Data destruction in the cloud is difficult because .
  
A.  Cloud data doesn’t have substance 
  
B.  Regulations prevent it
  C.  The hardware belongs to the provider
  
D.  Most of the data is subterranean       
   
134.    Data destruction in the cloud is difficult because .
  
A.  Data in the cloud is constantly being replicated and backed up
  
B.  Delete commands are prohibited in the cloud
  C.  Internet service providers (ISPs) will not allow destruction of data stored in the cloud
  
D.  The end clients may prevent it       
   135.    Data destruction in the cloud is difficult because .
  
A.  Only law enforcement is permitted to destroy cloud data
  
B.  The largest cloud vendors have prevented customers from destroying data
  C.  Cloud data renews itself automatically 
  D.  The cloud is often a multitenant environment
   136.    Which of the following is the best and only completely secure method of data destruction? 
  
A.  Degaussing
  
B.  Crypto-shredding
  C.  Physical destruction of resources that store the data
  
D.  Legal order issued by the prevailing jurisdiction where the data is geographically
situated
  
 1 37.    Aside from the fact that the cloud customer probably cannot reach the physical storage
assets of the cloud provider and that wiping an entire storage space would impact 
other customers, why would degaussing probably not be an effective means of secure
sanitization in the cloud? 
  A.  All the data storage space in the cloud is already gaussed.
  
B.  Cloud data storage may not be affected by degaussing.
  C.  Federal law prohibits it in the United States. 
  D.  The blast radius is too wide.
   
138.    Is overwriting a feasible secure sanitization method in the cloud?
  A.  Yes, but only if you use multiple passes. 
  B.  No, because you can’t get physical access to cloud storage resources.
  C.  Yes, but it requires a final pass with all zeros or ones. 
  D.  No, because the logical location of the stored data is almost impossible to determine.
56 Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security
   
139.    All of the following are reasons overwriting is not a viable secure sanitization method for
data stored in the cloud  except . 
  
A.  Overwriting an entire storage resource would affect other tenants’ data
  
B.  Regulators usually frown on the practice 
  C.  Locating the specific storage locations of cloud data is almost impossible 
  
D.  Data is being backed constantly in the cloud; before you finished overwriting an
entire data set, it would have been replicated elsewhere       
   
140.    Which of the following might make crypto-shredding difficult or useless?
  
A.  The cloud provider also managing the organization’s keys
  
B.  Lack of physical access to the environment
  C.  External attackers 
  
D.  Lack of user training and awareness
  
 141.    Crypto-shredding requires at least  cryptosystem(s). 
  
A.  One
  
B.  Two 
  C.  Three 
  
D.  Four
   
142.    In addition to having it for business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) purposes, 
data archiving might also be useful for . 
  A.  Ensuring profitability
  
B.  Increasing performance
  C.  Motivating users 
  
D.  Correcting accidental errors
   
143.    In addition to having it for business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) purposes, 
data archiving might also be useful for . 
  A.  Team building and morale
  
B.  Forensic investigation 
  C.  Choosing security controls
  D.  Enhancing quality       
   
144.    In addition to having it for business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) purposes, 
data archiving might also be useful for . 
  A.  Compliance/audit
  B.  Monitoring performance
  C.  Gathering investment 
  D.  Enforcing policy
Chapter 2  ■  Domain 2: Cloud Data Security 57
   145.    Who is responsible for performing archiving activities in a managed cloud environment? 
  
A.  The cloud customer 
  
B.  The cloud provider
  C.  The customer’s regulator 
  
D.  Depends on the contract       
   
146.    Data archiving and retention policies should include .
  
A.  How long the data must be kept before destruction
  
B.  The depth of underground storage bunkers used for archiving
  C.  The names of specific personnel tasked with restoring data in the event of data loss in 
the operational environment
  D.  The name(s) of regulators approving the policy
   147.    What should data archiving and retention policies include?
  A.  Names of personnel allowed to receive backup media, if third-party off-site archiving
services are used
  B.  Explicit statement of data formats and types of storage media 
  C.  A list of personnel whose data will be archived on a regular basis 
  D.  Which Internet service provider (ISP) should be used for backup procedures
   
148.    If the organization operates in a cloud environment, security operations procedures
should include specific contact information for all of the following  except
. 
  A.  Applicable regulatory entities
  B.  Federal and local law enforcement
  C.  The originator or publisher of the governing policy 
  D.  The cloud provider’s security response office
   
149.  If the organization operates in a cloud environment, security operations procedures 
should include guidance for all of the following audit or logging processes  except
. 
  
A.  Definition of security events and incidents
  B.  The brand or vendor of the cloud provider’s audit or logging tool
  C.  Process for adding new audit or logging rules 
  
D.  Process for filtering out false positives by amending the rule set
   
150.    What does nonrepudiation 
 mean?
  
A.  Prohibiting certain parties from a private conversation 
  B.  Ensuring that a transaction is completed before saving the results 
  C.  Ensuring that someone cannot turn off auditing capabilities while performing a
function
  
D.  Preventing any party that participates in a transaction from claiming that it did not


78 Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security
 
103.  All of the following can be used in the process of anomaly detection except
.
A. The ratio of failed to successful logins
B. Transactions completed successfully
C. Event time of day
D. Multiple concurrent logins
 
104.  Critical components should be protected with .
A. Strong passwords
B. Chain-link fences
C. Homomorphic encryption
D. Multifactor authentication
 
105.  It’s important to maintain a current asset inventory list, including surveying your environ-
ment on a regular basis, in order to .
A. Prevent unknown, unpatched assets from being used as back doors to the environment
B. Ensure that any lost devices are automatically entered into the acquisition system for
repurchasing and replacement
C. Maintain user morale by having their devices properly catalogued and annotated
D. Ensure that billing for all devices is handled by the appropriate departments
 
106.  Which of the following can enhance data portability?
A. Interoperable export formats
B. Egress monitoring solutions
C. Strong physical protections
D. A gile business intelligence
 1 07. Which of the following can enhance application portability?
A. Using the same cloud provider for the production environment and archiving
B. Conducting service trials in an alternate cloud provider environment
C. Providing cloud-usage training for all users
D. Tunin g web application firewalls (WAFs) to detect anomalous activity in inbound
communications
 108.  W hat should the cloud customer do to ensure that disaster recovery activities don’t exceed 
the maximum allowable downtime (MAD)?
A. Make sure any alternate provider can support the application needs of the organization.
B. Ensure that contact information for all first responder agencies are correct and up-to-
date at all times.
C. Select an appropriate recovery time objective (RTO).
D. Regularly review all regulatory directives for disaster response.
Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security 79
 109.  W hich of the following would probably best aid an organization in deciding whether to 
migrate from a traditional environment to a particular cloud provider?
A. Rate sheets comparing a cloud provider to other cloud providers
B. Cloud provider offers to provide engineering assistance during the migration
C. The cost/benefit measure of closing the organization’s relocation site (hot site/warm
site) and using the cloud for disaster recovery instead
D. SLA satisfaction surveys from other (current and past) cloud customers
 110. A cloud provider will probably require all of the following except
before a customer conducts a penetration test.
A. Notice
B. Description of scope of the test
C. P hysical location of the launch point
D. Knowledge of time frame/duration
 111. C loud providers will probably not allow  as part of a customer’s
penetration test.
A. Network mapping
B. Vulnerability scanning
C. Reconnaissance
D. Social engineering
 
112. A cloud customer performing a penetration test without the provider’s permission is
risking .
A. Malware contamination
B. Excessive fees for SLA violations
C. Loss of market share
D. Prosecution
 113. W hen a customer performs a penetration test in the cloud, why isn’t the test an optimum
simulation of attack conditions?
A. Attackers don’t use remote access for cloud activity.
B. A dvanced notice removes the element of surprise.
C. W hen cloud customers use malware, it’s not the same as when attackers use malware.
D. Regulator involvement changes the attack surface.
 114. Managed cloud services exist because the service is less expensive for each customer than 
creating the same services for themselves in a traditional environment. What is the tech-
nology that creates most of the cost savings in the cloud environment?
A. Emulation
B. Secure remote access
C. Crypto-shredding
D. Virtualization
80 Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security
 115. Managed cloud services exist because the service is less expensive for each customer than 
creating the same services for themselves in a traditional environment. From the customer 
perspective, most of the cost differential created between the traditional environment and 
the cloud through virtualization is achieved by removing .
A. External risks
B. Internal risks
C. Regulatory compliance
D. Sunk capital investment
 116. Managed cloud services exist because the service is less expensive for each customer than
creating the same services for themselves in a traditional environment. Using a managed 
service allows the customer to realize significant cost savings through the reduction of 
.
A. Risk
B. Security controls
C. Personnel
D. Data
 117. W hich of the following is a risk posed by the use of virtualization?
A. Internal threats interrupting service through physical accidents (spilling drinks, trip-
ping over cables, etc.)
B. T he ease of transporting stolen virtual machine images
C. Increased susceptibility of virtual systems to malware
D. E lectromagnetic pulse
 118. T he tasks performed by the hypervisor in the virtual environment can be most likened to 
the tasks of the  in the traditional environment.
A. Central processing unit (CPU)
B. Security team
C. Operating system (OS)
D. Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)
 119. Mass storage in the cloud will most likely currently involve .
A. S pinning platters
B. Tape drives
C. Magnetic disks
D. Solid-state drives (SSDs)
 120. What is the type of cloud storage arrangement that involves the use of associating meta-
data with the saved data?
A. Volume
B. B lock
Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security 81
C. O bject
D. Redundant
 
121. According to the NIST Cloud Computing Reference Architecture, which of the following
is most likely a cloud carrier?
A. Amazon Web Services
B. N etflix
C. Verizon
D. N essus
 122.  Resolving resource contentions in the cloud will most likely be the job of the
.
A. Router
B. Emulator
C. Regulator
D. Hypervisor
 123.  Security controls installed on a guest virtual machine operating system (VM OS) will not
function when .
A. T he user is accessing the VM remotely
B. T he OS is not scanned for vulnerabilities
C. T he OS is not subject to version control
D. T he VM is not active while in storage
 124.  T ypically, SSDs are .
A. More expensive than spinning platters
B. Larger than tape backup
C. Heavier than tape libraries
D. More subject to malware than legacy drives
 125.  Typica lly, SSDs are .
A. Harder to install than magnetic memory
B. Faster than magnetic drives
C. Harder to administer than tape libraries
D. More likely to fail than spinning platters
 126.  Typica lly, SSDs are .
A. Impossible to destroy physically
B. Not vulnerable to degaussing
C. Subject to a longer warranty
D. Protected by international trade laws
82 Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security
 127. Of the following control techniques/solutions, which can be combined to enhance the
protections offered by each?
A. F ences/firewalls
B. Asset inventories/personnel training
C. Data dispersion/encryption
D. Intrusion prevention solutions/intrusion detection solutions
 128.  Of the following control techniques/solutions, which can be combined to enhance the
protections offered by each?
A. Razor tape/background checks
B. Least privilege/generators
C. DLP/DRM
D. Personnel badging/secure baselines
 129.  Risk assessment is the responsibility of .
A. Companies offering managed cloud services
B. Regulatory bodies
C. Every organization
D. Legislative entities
 130.  Which entity can best aid the organization in avoiding vendor lock-in?t
A. Senior management
B. The IT security office
C. General counsel
D. The cloud security representative
 131. Perhaps the best method for avoiding vendor lock-out is also a means for enhancing
BC/DR capabilities. This is .
A. Having a warm site within 250 miles of the primary production environment
B. Using one cloud provider for primary production and another for backup purposes
C. Building a data center above the flood plain
D. Cross-training all personnel
 132.  can often be the result of inadvertent activity.
A. DDoS
B. P hishing
C. Sprawl
D. D isasters
Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security 83
 
133.  Of the following, which is probably the most significant risk in a managed cloud t
environment?
A. DDoS
B. Management plane breach
C. Guest escape
D. Physical attack on the utility service lines
 
134.  What is the optimal number of entrances to the cloud data center campus?
A. One
B. Two
C. Three
D. Four
 135.  The cloud data center campus physical access point should include all of the following
except .
A. Reception area
B. Video surveillance
C. Badging procedure
D. Mantrap structures
 136.  Where should multiple egress points be included?
A. At the power distribution substation
B. Within the data center
C. In every building on the campus
D. In the security operations center
 137. Which of the following is a risk in the cloud environment that does not exist or is not as
prevalent in the traditional environment?
A. DDoS
B. I solation failure
C. External attack
D. Internal attack
 138.  A ll security controls necessarily .
A. Are expensive
B. Degrade performance
C. Require senior management approval
D. Will work in the cloud environment as well as they worked in the traditional
environment
84 Chapter 3   ■  Domain 3: Cloud Platform and Infrastructure Security
 
139.  W hich of the following is a risk in the cloud environment that does not exist or is not as
prevalent in the traditional environment?
A. Legal liability in multiple jurisdictions
B. Loss of productivity due to DDoS
C. Ability of users to gain access to their physical workplace
D. Fire
 140.  Which of the following is a risk in the cloud environment that does not exist or is not as
prevalent in the traditional environment?
A. Loss of availability due to DDoS
B. L oss of value due to DDoS
C. Loss of confidentiality due to DDoS
D. Loss of liability due to DDoS
 141. DDoS attacks do not affect  for cloud customers.
A. Productivity
B. Availability
C. Connectivity
D. Integrity
 142.  Sprawl in the cloud can lead to significant additional costs to the organization because of 
.
A. Larger necessary physical footprint
B. Much larger utility consumption
C. Software licensing
D. Requisite additional training
 
143.  It is  best to use variables in .
A. Baseline configurations
B. Security control implementations
C. Contract language
D. BC/DR tests


100 Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security
  
  81.    A cloud environment that lacks security controls is vulnerable to exploitation, data loss, 
and interruptions. Conversely, excessive use of security controls . 
  
A.  Can lead to data breaches 
  
B.  Causes electromagnetic interference
  C.  Will affect quality of service 
  
D.  Can cause regulatory noncompliance
  
  82.    A cloud environment that lacks security controls is vulnerable to exploitation, data loss, 
and interruptions. Conversely, excessive use of security controls . 
  A.  Can lead to distributed denial of service (DDoS)
  
B.  Allows malware infections
  C.  Increases the risk of adverse environmental effects 
  
D.  Is an unnecessary expense
  
  83.    A cloud environment that lacks security controls is vulnerable to exploitation, data loss, 
and interruptions. Conversely, excessive use of security controls . 
  A.  Can lead to customer dissatisfaction
  
B.  Is a risk to health and human safety
  C.  Brings down the organization’s stock price
  D.  Negates the need for insurance
    84.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also dictate which application programming interfaces (APIs) can be 
used to access and manipulate company data and the process for getting an API added to 
the list of approved programs. You conduct an approved scan of the company data set in
the cloud, with the provider’s permission. This allows you to catalog all APIs that have 
accessed and manipulated company data through authorized user accounts in the last 
month. The scan reveals that 300 different APIs were used by authorized personnel. Of 
these, 30 had been approved by the company and were on the list. Of the following, what 
is the most  reasonable immediate action?t
  A.  Delete accounts of all users who had utilized unapproved APIs to access company 
data. 
  B.  Suspend access for all users who had utilized unapproved APIs to access company 
data. 
  C.  Block all unapproved APIs from accessing company data.
  D.  Notify whomever you report to in the company hierarchy, and suggest bringing the 
matter to the attention of senior management immediately.
Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security 101
  
  85.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal 
IT devices. The policies also dictate which application programming interfaces (APIs) can 
be used to access and manipulate company data and the process for getting an API added 
to the list of approved programs. You conduct an approved scan of the company data 
set in the cloud, with the provider’s permission. This allows you to catalog all APIs that
have accessed and manipulated company data through authorized user accounts in the
last month. The scan reveals that 300 different APIs were used by authorized personnel. 
Of these, 30 had been approved by the company and were on the list. You’ve brought the 
matter to the attention of the chief executive officer (CEO), who understands the issue and
asks for your recommendation. What is probably the best suggestion? 
  A.  Gather more data about how users are utilizing the APIs and for what purposes. 
  
B.  Delete accounts of all users who had utilized unapproved APIs to access company 
data. 
  C.  Suspend access for all users who had utilized unapproved APIs to access company 
data. 
  D.  Block all unapproved APIs from accessing company data.
  
  86.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also dictate which application programming interfaces (APIs) can be 
utilized to access and manipulate company data and the process for getting an API added
to the list of approved programs. You conduct an approved scan of the company data 
set in the cloud, with the provider’s permission. This allows you to catalog all APIs that
have accessed and manipulated company data through authorized user accounts in the
last month. The scan reveals that 300 different APIs were used by authorized personnel. 
Of these, 30 had been approved by the company and were on the list. Upon performing
an information-gathering investigation at the behest of the chief executive officer (CEO), 
you determine that these APIs increased productivity 387 percent over the period since 
they were adopted, at a cost that is negligible compared to getting even one API through
the company’s current approval process. What is your suggestion on how to handle the
situation? 
  A.  Retroactively put all the APIs currently in use through the formal approval process,
and require that all future APIs users want to install also get approved. 
  B.  Have the CEO waive formal approval processing for all APIs currently in use, 
granting them approval, but require all future APIs be approved through that process.
  C.  Punish all employees who have installed or used any of the rogue APIs for violating
company policy.
  D.  Change the policy.
102 Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security
  
  87.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also dictate which application programming interfaces (APIs) can be 
utilized to access and manipulate company data and the process for getting an API added
to the list of approved programs. You conduct an approved scan of the company data 
set in the cloud, with the provider’s permission. This allows you to catalog all APIs that
have accessed and manipulated company data through authorized user accounts in the
last month. The scan reveals that 300 different APIs were used by authorized personnel. 
Of these, 30 had been approved by the company and were on the list. As a subject matter 
expert, what should you also recommend to the chief executive officer (CEO)? 
  A.  Reward the users who committed the infractions, for aiding the company even when
they were violating the policy. 
  
B.  Replace all the personnel that violated the policy, and have the new personnel use the 
new policy from their start of hire.
  C.  Restrict user access to possible APIs.
  D.  Augment the current set of security controls used by the company in order to offset
risks posed by the anticipated use of even more APIs from unknown sources.
    88.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also allow users to select which application programming interfaces 
(APIs) they install and use on their own devices in order to access and manipulate 
company data. Of the following, what is a security control you’d like to implement to
offset the risk(s) incurred by this practice?
  A.  Encrypt all routers between mobile users and the cloud.
  
B.  Use additional anti-malware detection capabilities on both user devices and the
environment to which they connect. 
  C.  Implement strong multifactor authentication on all user-owned devices. 
  
D.  Employ regular performance monitoring in the cloud environment to ensure that the
cloud provider is meeting the service level agreement (SLA) targets.       
    89.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also allow users to select which application programming interfaces 
(APIs) they install and use on their own devices in order to access and manipulate 
company data. Of the following, what is a security control you’d like to implement to
offset the risk(s) incurred by this practice?
  A.  Regular and widespread integrity checks on sampled data throughout the managed 
environment
  
B.  More extensive and granular background checks on all employees, particularly new 
hires 
Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security 103
  C.  Inclusion of references to all applicable regulations in the policy documents
  
D.  Increased enforcement of separation of duties for all workflows
    90.    You are the security manager for an online retail sales company with 100 employees and a 
production environment hosted in a platform as a service (PaaS) model with a major cloud
provider. According to your company policies, personnel are allowed to work equally
from the company offices and their own homes or other locations, using their personal IT 
devices. The policies also allow users to select which application programming interfaces 
(APIs) they install and use on their own devices in order to access and manipulate 
company data. Of the following, what is a security control you’d like to implement to
offset the risk(s) incurred by this practice?
  
A.  Enact secure connections between the user devices and the cloud environment using 
end-to-end encryption. 
  B.  Enact secure connections between the user devices and the cloud environment using 
link encryption. 
  C.  Employ additional user training. 
  D.  Tunnel all connections with a virtual private network (VPN).       
    91.    Users in your organization have been leveraging application programming interfaces
(APIs) for enhancing their productivity in the cloud environment. To ensure that
you are securing API access to the production environment, you should deploy
 and . 
  
A.  Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) and message-level cryptography 
  B.  Transport Layer Security (TLS) and message-level cryptography 
  C.  SSL and whole drive encryption 
  D.  TLS and whole drive encryption
  
  9 2.    You implement identity and access management (IAM) in order to control access between 
subjects and objects. What is the ultimate purpose of this effort?
  A.  Identification. Determine who the specific, individual subjects are.
  B.  Authentication. Verify and validate any identification assertions.
  C.  Authorization. Grant subjects permissions to objects once they’ve been authenticated.
  D.  Accountability. Be able to reconstruct a narrative of who accessed what.       
  
  9 3.     is perhaps the main external factor driving identity and access 
management (IAM) efforts. 
  
A.  Regulation 
  B.  Business need 
  C.  The evolving threat landscape
  
D.  Monetary value       
104 Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security
    94.    Whether in a cloud or traditional environment, it is important to implement both 
 and  access controls.
  
A.  Internal and managed
  
B.  Provider and customer
  C.  Physical and logical 
  
D.  Administrative and technical
  
  95.    Access to specific data sets should be granted by .
  
A.  The data subjects
  B.  The data owners
  C.  The data processors
  D.  The data regulators
  
  96.    Access should be granted based on all of the following  except . 
  
A.  Policy 
  
B.  Business needs
  C.  Performance
  
D.  Acceptable risk
    97.    Federation allows  across organizations. 
  
A.  Role replication
  
B.  Encryption
  C.  Policy 
  
D.  Access
  
  98.    Federation should be  to the users. 
  
A.  Hostile
  
B.  Proportional 
  C.  Transparent 
  
D.  Expensive
    99.    A web application firewall (WAF) understands which protocol(s)?
  A.  All protocols that use the Internet as a medium 
  B.  Transport Layer Security (TLS)
  C.  Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP)
  D.  File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security 105
   
100.    Web application firewalls and database activity monitors function at levels 
 and  of the Open Systems Interconnection
(OSI) model, respectively.
  A.  1 and 7
  
B.  7 and 1
  C.  7 and 7 
  
D.  3 and 4
  
 101.    What can tokenization be used for? 
  
A.  Encryption
  
B.  Compliance with the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS)
  C.  Enhancing the user experience 
  
D.  Giving management oversight to e-commerce functions
   102.    Merchants who accept credit card payments can avoid some of the compliance burden
for the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) by outsourcing the
tokenization function to . 
  A.  A third party 
  
B.  The data owner 
  C.  The data subject
  
D.  The PCI Security Standards Council
   
103.    Which of the following is an example of useful and sufficient data masking of the string 
“CCSP”?
  A.  XCSP
  B.  PSCC
  C.  TtLp
  
D.  3X91
   104.    A cloud-based sandbox should not 
 be used fort . 
  
A.  Application interoperability testing 
  
B.  Processing sensitive data 
  C.  Application security testing
  D.  Malware analysis       
   105.    Which of the following should occur at each stage of the software development lifecycle
(SDLC)? 
  A.  Added functionality
  B.  Management review 
  C.  Verification and validation
  D.  Repurposing of any newly developed components
106 Chapter 4  ■  Domain 4: Cloud Application Security
   
106.    Software that includes security elements from the outset of the software development
lifecycle (SDLC) process will be . 
  
A.  More secure in deployment
  
B.  Less secure in deployment
  C.  More likely to malfunction
  
D.  Less likely to malfunction
  
 107.    Software that includes security elements from the outset of the software development 
lifecycle (SDLC) process will . 
  A.  Be less expensive to operate securely in the production environment 
  
B.  Be more expensive to operate securely in the production environment
  C.  Not be interoperable with other software and systems in the production environment 
  
D.  Have a greater likelihood of interoperability with other software and systems in the
production environment
   108.    The inclusion of security controls in the software design process is dictated by 
. 
  
A.  The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-37
  
B.  The American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) 
  C.  ISO 27034 
  
D.  The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)       
   
109.    Software development should be perceived as . 
  
A.  Including all members of the organization
  
B.  The paramount goal of the organization
  C.  The greatest risk to the organization
  D.  A lifecycle
  
 110.    Dynamic testing of software is perhaps most useful for . 
  
A.  Simulating negative test cases 
  
B.  Finding errors in the source code 
  C.  Determining the effect of social engineering
  D.  Penetration tests     

  
Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations 121
  
  73.    Most attacks that overcome encryption protections exploit . 
  
A.  Mathematical principles
  
B.  Misconfigurations 
  C.  Supercomputers 
  
D.  Statistical probabilities       
  
  74.    Administrators and engineers who work for cloud service providers will have a significant
amount of control over multiple customer environments and therefore pose a severe risk.
Which of the following is  not  a technique used to mitigate this level of increased risk fromt
privileged users in the cloud data center?
  A.  Two-person control
  B.  Enhanced logging of administrative activity
  C.  Granting privileged access only on a temporary basis
  
D.  Assigning permanent administrators to select customer accounts
  
  7 5.    Which of these is a vital action to determine whether the business continuity and disaster
recovery (BC/DR) effort has a chance of being successful? 
  A.  Perform an integrity check on archived data to ensure that the backup process is not
corrupting the data.
  B.  Encrypt all archived data to ensure that it can’t be exposed while at rest in the long 
term.
  C.  Periodically restore from backups. 
  D.  Train all personnel on BC/DR actions they should take to preserve health and human
safety.
    7 6.    Patches do all the following  except . 
  
A.  Address newly discovered vulnerabilities
  
B.  Solve cloud interoperability problems 
  C.  Add new features and capabilities to existing systems 
  D.  Address performance issues
  
 77.    When applying patches, it is necessary to do all of the following  except . 
  
A.  Test t he patch in a sandbox that simulates the production environment 
  B.  Put the patch through the formal change management process 
  C.  Be prepared to roll back to the last known good build
  D.  Inform users of any impact or interruptions
  
  7 8.    Which of the following is a risk associated with automated patching? 
  A.  Users can be leveraged by intruders. 
  B.  A patch may not be applicable to a given environment. 
  C.  Patches can come loaded with malware, in a Trojan horse attack.
  D.  Automated patching is slow and inefficient.
122 Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations
  
  7 9.    Which of the following is a risk associated with automated patching, especially in the 
cloud?
  A.  Snapshot/saved virtual machine (VM) images won’t take a patch.
  
B.  Remote access disallows patching.
  C.  Cloud service providers aren’t responsible for patching. 
  
D.  Patches aren’t applied among all cloud data centers.
  
  80.    Which of the following is a risk associated with automated patching, especially in the 
cloud?
  A.  Patches may interfere with some tenants’ production environments.
  
B.  Patches don’t work with software as a service (SaaS) service models.
  C.  Patches don’t work with private cloud builds. 
  D.  Vendors don’t issue patches to cloud providers.
    81.    Which of the following is a risk associated with manual patching, especially in the cloud? 
  A.  It can happen too quickly.
  B.  Vendors release patches that work only with their proprietary automated tools. 
  C.  It’s not scalable. 
  D.  Users can be tricked into installing malware that looks like a patch.
    82.    Which of the following is a risk associated with manual patching especially in the cloud? 
  
A.  No notice before the impact is realized 
  B.  There is a lack of applicability to the environment. 
  C.  Patches may or may not address the vulnerability they were designed to fix. 
  D.  The possibility for human error exists.
  
  83.    You are the security manager for an organization that uses the cloud for its production 
environment. According to your contract with the cloud provider, your organization is 
responsible for patching. A new patch is issued by one of your vendors. You decide not to 
apply it immediately for fear of interoperability problems. What additional risk are you 
accepting?
  
A.  The cloud provider will suspend your access for violating its terms of service.
  B.  The cloud provider may sue your organization for breach of contract.
  C.  Your organization is subject to the vulnerability the patch addresses. 
  
D.  Your end clients will no longer trust your organization, and this will hurt your
revenue flow.
Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations 123
    84.    You are the security manager for an organization that uses the cloud for its production 
environment. According to your contract with the cloud provider, your organization is 
responsible for patching. A new patch is issued by one of your vendors. You decide not to 
apply it immediately for fear of interoperability problems. Who may impose penalties on
your organization for this decision if the vulnerability is exploited? 
  A.  The cloud provider
  
B.  Regulators
  C.  Your end clients 
  
D.  Your Internet service provider (ISP)       
  
  85.    Which of the following aspects of a cloud environment is most 
 likely to add risk to thet
patch management process? 
  A.  Variations in user training and familiarity with the cloud
  B.  A cloud services contract that specifies which parties are responsible for which
aspects of patching 
  C.  VMs located physically in one location but operating in different time zones
  D.  The prevalence of attacker activity at the time the patch is applied
    86.    Which type of web application monitoring most closely measures actual activity?
  A.  Synthetic performance monitoring 
  B.  Real-user monitoring (RUM) 
  C.  Security information and event management (SIEM)
  D.  Database application monitor (DAM)
    87.    When using real-user monitoring (RUM) for web application activity analysis, which of 
the following do you need to take into account? 
  A.  False positives
  B.  Attacker baseline actions
  C.  Privacy concerns
  D.  Sandboxed environments
    88.    Synthetic performance monitoring may be preferable to real-user monitoring (RUM) 
because . 
  A.  It costs less 
  B.  It is a more accurate depiction of user behavior
  C.  It is more comprehensive 
  
D.  It can take place in the cloud
124 Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations
    89.    You are the security manager for an organization with a cloud-based production
environment. You are tasked with setting up the event monitoring and logging systems.
In your jurisdiction, private entities are allowed to monitor all activity involving their
systems, without exception. Which of the following best describes a logging scheme you 
would recommend? 
  A.  Logging every event, at all levels of granularity, including continual screen shots, 
keystroke logging, and browser history 
  
B.  Sufficient logging to reconstruct a narrative of events at some later date
  C.  Logging only data related to incidents after they have occurred
  
D.  Logging specific data sets recommended by industry standards and guidelines       
  
  90.    Who should be performing log review?
  A.  Only certified, trained log review professionals with a great deal of experience with
the logging tool 
  B.  The internal audit body 
  C.  External audit providers 
  D.  Someone with knowledge of the operation and a security background
    91.    Which of these subsystems is probably  most  important for acquiring useful logt
information? 
  A.  Fan
  B.  RAM 
  C.  Clock 
  D.  Uninterruptible power supply (UPS)
    92.    A SIEM (security information and event management) system does not  eliminate the need t
for human participation in . 
  A.  Log collection
  B.  Responding to alerts 
  C.  Mathematical normalization of different logs 
  D.  Detecting and alerts
  
  9 3.    Log data should be protected . 
  
A.  One level below the sensitivity level of the systems from which it was collected
  B.  At least at the same sensitivity level as the systems from which it was collected 
  C.  With encryption in transit, at rest, and in use 
  
D.  According to National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) guidelines
    94.    Risk is usually viewed with consideration for all the following elements  except
. 
  
A.  Impact that could occur if a given circumstance is realized 
  
B.  The likelihood or probability a circumstance will occur
Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations 125
  C.  In the context of specific threats to an organization 
  
D.  According to risks recently realized by other organizations in the same industry
  
  95.    Risk management entails evaluating all of the following  except .
  
A.  Threats
  
B.  Vulnerabilities
  C.  Countermeasures
  
D.  Customers
  
  9 6.    Impact resulting from risk being realized is often measured in terms of 
. 
  
A.  Amount of data lost
  B.  Money
  C.  Amount of property lost 
  D.  Number of people affected
  
  97.    You are the security officer for a small nonprofit organization. You are tasked with 
performing a risk assessment for your organization; you have one month to complete it. 
The IT personnel you work with have been with the organization for many years and
have built the systems and infrastructure from the ground up. They have little training
and experience in the field of risk. Which type of risk assessment would you choose to 
conduct?
  A.  Quantitative
  B.  Qualitative
  C.  Pro forma 
  D.  Informal
    98.    Which of the following is  most 
 useful in determining the single loss expectancy (SLE) of t
an asset? 
  
A.  The frequency with which you expect that type of loss to occur
  B.  The dollar value of the asset 
  C.  The sensitivity of the asset
  D.  The size and scope of the asset
  
  99.    Which of the following will likely  best 
 help you predict the annualized rate of occurrence t
(ARO) of a specific loss? 
  
A.  Threat intelligence data
  B.  Historical data
  C.  Vulnerability scans
  
D.  Aggregation analysis
126 Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations
   100.    Which of the following has the most 
 effect on exposure factor (EF)? t
  
A.  The type of threat vector 
  
B.  The source location of the attack
  C.  The target of the attack
  
D.  The jurisdiction where the attack takes place
  
 101.    You are a consultant, performing an external security review on a large manufacturing 
firm. You determine that its newest assembly plant, which cost $24 million, could be 
completely destroyed by a fire but that a fire suppression system could effectively protect
the plant. The fire suppression system costs $15 million. An insurance policy that would 
cover the full replacement cost of the plant costs $1 million per month. What is the annual
rate of occurrence (ARO) in this scenario? 
  A.  12
  B.  $24 million 
  C.  1 
  D.  $10 million
   102.    You are a consultant performing an external security review on a large manufacturing 
firm. You determine that its newest assembly plant, which cost $24 million, could be 
completely destroyed by a fire but that a fire suppression system could effectively protect
the plant. The fire suppression system costs $15 million. An insurance policy that would 
cover the full replacement cost of the plant costs $1 million per month. What would you
recommend? 
  A.  Accept the risk of fire, and save money by not spending anything on controls/
countermeasures.
  B.  Get the fire suppression system.
  C.  Get the insurance policy. 
  D.  It is impossible to decide from this information.       
   103.    You are a consultant performing an external security review on a large manufacturing 
firm. You determine that its newest assembly plant, which cost $24 million, could be 
completely destroyed by a fire but that a fire suppression system could effectively protect
the plant. The fire suppression system costs $15 million. An insurance policy that would 
cover the full replacement cost of the plant costs $1 million per month. In order to
establish the true annualized loss expectancy (ALE), you would need all of the following 
information except . 
  A.  The amount of revenue generated by the plant
  B.  The rate at which the plant generates revenue 
  C.  The length of time it would take to rebuild the plant 
  
D.  The amount of product the plant creates       
Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations 127
   104.    You are a consultant performing an external security review on a large manufacturing 
firm. You determine that its newest assembly plant, which cost $24 million, could be 
completely destroyed by a fire but that a fire suppression system could effectively protect
the plant. The fire suppression system costs $15 million. An insurance policy that 
would cover the full replacement cost of the plant costs $1 million per month. The plant 
generates $2 million of revenue each month. The time to rebuild the plant at the current
location is six months. What should you recommend? 
  A.  Accept the risk of fire, and save money by not spending anything on controls and
countermeasures.
  
B.  Get the fire suppression system.
  C.  Get the insurance policy. 
  
D.  It is impossible to decide from this information.
   105.    Risk mitigation must  always  also entail which other method of addressing risk? 
  A.  Risk acceptance 
  B.  Risk avoidance
  C.  Risk transfer 
  D.  Risk attenuation
   106.    Which of the following poses a secondary risk?
  A.  Fire exit signs 
  B.  Oxygen-displacing fire suppression
  C.  Automated fire detection systems 
  D.  Fail-safe fire egress paths
  
 1 07.    Which of the following is  not 
 true about risk mitigation?t
  A.  A given control/countermeasure should never cost more than the impact of the risk it
mitigates.
  B.  Risk cannot be reduced to zero.
  C.  The end state of risk mitigation is risk at a tolerable level.
  D.  Risk mitigation is always the best means to address risk.
   
108.    Which of the following is  not 
 true about risk mitigation?t
  
A.  The cost of the control/countermeasure per year is simple: the overall cost (of 
acquisition, implementation, and maintenance) divided by life span, in years. 
  B.  Ignoring risk is not risk mitigation; ignoring risk is risk acceptance.
  C.  The cost of mitigation can be compared against the cost of a control/countermeasure
to determine the optimum course of action.
  
D.  Risk is fluid, so all risk assessments are pointless.
128 Chapter 5  ■  Domain 5: Cloud Security Operations
   109.    Which comes first? 
  
A.  Accreditation
  
B.  Operation 
  C.  Maintenance 
  
D.  Certification
  
 110.    The National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Risk Management 
Framework (RMF) is required for federal agencies in the United States. Which of the 
following is  not 
 a characteristic of the RMF?t
  
A.  Automation of controls wherever possible
  
B.  Focuses on continual improvement and near real-time risk management
  C.  Is based on cost metrics and perceived threats
  D.  Links risk management at the process level to risk management at the managerial
level
   111.    Symmetric encryption involves . 
  A.  Two key pairs, mathematically related
  B.  Unknown parties, sharing information 
  C.  Signed certificates
  D.  A shared secret
  
 112.    Symmetric encryption involves . 
  A.  The Diffie-Hellman key exchange
  B.  Passing keys out of band
  C.  Mathematically related key pairs
  D.  A one-way mathematical algorithm for validating messages

  
Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance 139
  
  46.    You are the security manager for a software company that uses platform as a service 
(PaaS) in a public cloud service. Your company’s general counsel informs you that 
they have received a letter from a former employee who is filing a lawsuit against your 
company. You should immediately issue a(n)  to all personnel and 
offices within your company. 
  A.  Litigation hold notice
  
B.  Audit scoping letter 
  C.  Stop loss memo 
  
D.  Memorandum of agreement
  
 47.    You are the security manager for a software company that uses platform as a service 
(PaaS) in a public cloud service. Your company’s general counsel informs you that 
they have received a letter from a former employee who is filing a lawsuit against your 
company. If you do not take proper steps to retain, capture, and deliver pertinent data
to the person making the request (or their attorney), the company could be facing legal
problems with  as well as the lawsuit.
  A.  Spoliation 
  
B.  Fraud
  C.  Jurisdiction 
  
D.  Recompositing
  
  4 8.    You are the chief information officer (CIO) for an IT hardware manufacturer. Your
company uses cloud-based software as a service (SaaS) services, including email. You 
receive a legal request for data pertinent to a case. Your e-discovery efforts will largely be 
dependent on . 
  A.  The cloud provider
  B.  Regulators
  C.  The cloud customer 
  
D.  Internal IT personnel
  
  4 9.    You work for a company that operates a production environment in the cloud. Another
company using the same cloud provider is under investigation by law enforcement
for racketeering. Your company should be concerned about this because of the cloud 
characteristic of . 
  A.  Virtualization
  B.  Pooled resources 
  C.  Elasticity 
  D.  Automated self-service
140 Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance
  
  5 0.    You are the security manager for a software company that uses platform as a service 
(PaaS) in a public cloud service. Your company’s general counsel informs you that 
they have received a letter from a former employee who is filing a lawsuit against your 
company. What is one of the common practices used in your industry that will have to be 
halted until the resolution of the case? 
  A.  Versioning
  
B.  Patching
  C.  Threat modeling 
  
D.  Secure destruction
  
  51.    Your company receives a litigation hold notice from a customer that is suing you for 
harm caused by one of your products. You are using a managed cloud service for your
production environment. You determine that the data requested by the litigant is vast and
is going be very difficult to review for pertinence to the case.
   The senior executive at your firm who is making decisions about this case suggests
handing over all data the company has archived for the time frame related to the case, 
whether or not it may be pertinent, in order to both allow the litigant to find the pertinent 
data and reduce the costs your company would incur if it performed the reform. 
   What should be your response to the executive?
  A.  This is an excellent idea; it fulfills the company’s legal requirements and reduces the 
overall costs of the litigation. 
  B.  This is a good idea; it may alleviate some of the costs associated with the court case.
  C.  This is a bad idea; the company might not realize the full cost savings that it expects.
  D.  This is a horrible idea; it could lead to extensive unauthorized disclosure and
additional lawsuits.       
  
  5 2.    Your company receives a litigation hold notice from a customer that is suing you for 
harm caused by one of your products. You are using a managed cloud service for your
production environment. You determine that the data requested by the litigant is vast and
is going be very difficult to review for pertinence to the case.
  Which security control mechanism may also be useful in the e-discovery effort? 
  
A.  Trained and aware personnel
  B.  An egress monitoring solution (data loss prevention or data leak protection [DLP]) 
  C.  A digital rights management (DRM) solution 
  
D.  A multifactor authentication implementation
  
  5 3.    When targeting a cloud customer, a court grants an order allowing a law enforcement
entity to seize .
  
A.  Electronic data 
  B.  Hardware 
  C.  Electronic data and the hardware on which it resides 
  
D.  Only data extracted from hardware
Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance 141
  
  5 4.    Your company is defending itself during a civil trial for a breach of contract case.
Personnel from your IT department have performed forensic analysis on event logs that 
reflect the circumstances related to the case.
   In order for your personnel to present the evidence they collected during forensic analysis 
as expert witnesses, you should ensure that . 
  A.  Their testimony is scripted, and they do not deviate from the script
  
B.  They present only evidence that is favorable to your side of the case
  C.  They are trained and certified in the tools they used
  
D.  They are paid for their time while they are appearing in the courtroom
  
  55.    In some jurisdictions, it is mandatory that personnel conducting forensic analysis 
collection or analysis have a proper . 
  A.  Training credential 
  B.  License
  C.  Background check
  D.  Approved toolset
  
  5 6.    You run an IT security incident response team. When seizing and analyzing data for 
forensic purposes, your investigative personnel modify the data from its original content.
For courtroom evidentiary purposes, this makes the data . 
  A.  Inadmissible
  B.  Less believable, if the changes aren’t documented
  C.  Harder to control 
  D.  Easily refutable
    57.    You are the security manager for a small investing firm. After a heated debate regarding
security control implementation, one of your employees strikes another employee with a
keyboard. The local media hear about the incident and broadcast/publish stories about it 
under the title “Computer-related attack.” 
   What may be the result of this situation? 
  
A.  A criminal trial
  B.  A civil case
  C.  Both criminal and civil proceedings 
  
D.  Federal racketeering charges
  
  58.    You are the security manager for a small investing firm. After a heated debate regarding
security control implementation, one of your employees strikes another employee with a
keyboard. The local media hear about the incident and broadcast/publish stories about it 
under the title “Computer-related attack.” 
   In this circumstance, who would likely be prosecuted? 
  
A.  Your organ ization 
  
B.  The attacker
  C.  The victim 
  
D.  You, as the manager of both parties
142 Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance
  
  59.     is the legal concept that describes the actions and processes a 
cloud customer uses to ensure that a reasonable level of protection is applied to the data in 
their control.
  A.  Due care 
  
B.  Due diligence 
  C.  Liability 
  
D.  Reciprocity       
    60.    Which of the following aspects of virtualization make the technology useful for evidence 
collection? 
  
A.  Hypervisors
  B.  Pooled resources 
  C.  Snapshotting
  
D.  Live migration
  
  61.    Which of the following practices can enhance both operational capabilities and forensic
readiness?
  A.  Highly trained forensic personnel
  
B.  Regular full backups 
  C.  A highly secure data archive 
  
D.  Homomorphic encryption
    62.    Which of the following practices can enhance both operational capabilities and
configuration management efforts? 
  A.  Regular backups
  B.  Constant uptime 
  C.  Multifactor authentication
  
D.  File hashes
    63.    Which of the following is probably the most 
 volatile form of data that might serve at
forensic purpose? 
  A.  Virtual instance RAM
  B.  Hardware RAM 
  C.  Hypervisor logs
  D.  Drive storage
    64.    You are the security representative of a small company doing business through a cloud
provider. Your company comes under investigation by law enforcement for possible
wrongdoing. In performing e-discovery activity so as to comply with a court order, the 
cloud provider offers to ship a piece of hardware, a storage drive, from their data center to 
you for inspection/analysis.
Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance 143
   What should probably be your response?
  
A.  Yes. You want it because it gives you the most granular and comprehensive view of 
the pertinent data.
  
B.  Yes. You want to be able to inspect it before law enforcement has the opportunity to 
review it. 
  C.  No. You don’t want the liability of possibly disclosing someone else’s privacy data.
  D.  No. You don’t want the liability of possibly damaging someone else’s property.       
  
  6 5.    The Reporting phase of forensic investigation usually involves presenting findings to
. 
  
A.  Senior management
  B.  Regulators
  C.  The court 
  
D.  Stakeholders
  
  66.    When presenting forensic evidence in court as testimony, you should include, if at all 
possible, . 
  
A.  Your personal opinion
  
B.  A clear, concise view of your side of the case
  C.  Alternative explanations
  
D.  Historical examples that have bearing on the circumstances of the current case
    67.    When collecting digital evidence for forensic purposes, it is important to compare the 
integrity value for any copied material against .
  A.  The original
  B.  The backup
  C.  Another copy
  
D.  The industry standard
  
  68.    Who should be responsible for ensuring the state, security, and control of all evidence, 
from the time it’s collected until it is presented in court?
  A.  The data controller
  B.  The evidence custodian
  C.  The security manager
  D.  The IT director
    69.    When you’re accessing an electronic storage file for forensic purposes, it is a best practice 
to use .
  A.  Gloves
  B.  A trusted computing base
  C.  Sysadmin access 
  D.  A write-blocker
144 Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance
  
  7 0.    Which of the following should  not 
 be true about any tests performed during forensic t
analysis? 
  A.  Tests should be repeatable by opposing attorneys.
  
B.  Tests should be standard to the forensics industry.
  C.  Tests should be performed by trained, certified professionals.
  
D.  Tests should be tailored and customized for specific purposes.
  
  71.    Which of the following pieces of data is considered personally identifiable information 
(PII) in the European Union (EU) but not 
 in the United States?t
  
A.  Name
  
B.  Home address
  C.  Birth date
  D.  Mobile phone number       
  
  7 2.    The Privacy Shield program allows U.S. companies to collect and process privacy
information about European Union (EU) citizens. The program is included in which law? 
  A.  Federal Information Security Management Act (FISMA)
  B.  The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
  C.  Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) 
  D.  Sarbanes-Oxley Act
  
  7 3.    You are the security manager for a U.S.-based company that has branches abroad, 
including offices in Germany, Italy, and Brazil. If your company wants to process European
Union (EU) citizen personally identifiable information (PII) data, one of the options is to
use standard contractual clauses (also known as model contracts, or binding rules). 
   If you choose this option, your company will have to get approval from
. 
  A.  Privacy officials in Italy
  B.  Privacy officials in Brazil 
  C.  Privacy officials in Italy and Germany 
  D.  Privacy officials in Italy, Germany, and Brazil
  
  7 4.    Using cloud storage is considered  under most privacy frameworks
and laws.
  
A.  Illegal
  B.  Data collection
  C.  Opt-in
  D.  Processing
Chapter 6  ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance 145
  
  75.    Which U.S. federal government entity is in charge of administering the Privacy Shield
program? 
  A.  State Department
  
B.  Privacy Protection Office 
  C.  Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
  
D.  Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
  
  7 6.    In deciding which cloud provider to use, one of the characteristics you may want to
determine about the provider is their level of professionalism. Which of the following tools 
could be used to determine the thoroughness, detail, and repeatability of the processes and 
procedures offered by a cloud provider? 
  A.  The Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Security, Trust, and Assurance Registry (STAR) 
certification program 
  B.  The Risk Management Framework (RMF)
  C.  The Capability Maturity Model (CMM)
  D.  The EuroCloud Star Audit Certification
    77.    Service Organization Control (SOC) 2 reports were intended to be . 
  A.  Released to the public
  B.  Only technical assessments
  C.  Retained for internal use
  D.  Nonbinding
  
  7 8.    To receive a Service Organization Control (SOC) 2 Type 2 report from a potential
provider, the provider may require you to perform/provide a(n) . 
  A.  Security deposit 
  B.  Nondisclosure agreement (NDA) 
  C.  Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Security, Trust, and Assurance Registry (STAR) 
certification application
  D.  Act of fealty
  
  7 9.    The Generally Accepted Privacy Principles described by the American Institute of 
Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) are very similar to the privacy principles described 
by . 
  
A.  The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) and
European Union (EU) General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
  B.  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and European Union Agency
for Network and Information Security (ENISA) 
  C.  Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Gramm–Leach–
Bliley Act (GLBA)
  
D.  The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the U.S. State Department
146 Chapter 6 ■  Domain 6: Legal, Risk, and Compliance
    80.    The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) requires that all merchants
who want to process credit card transactions be compliant with a wide variety of security
control requirements. Approximately how many controls are listed in the PCI DSS?
  A.  Around a dozen 
  
B.  About 20 
  C.  About 100 
  
D.  Over 200
    81.    The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) requires that all merchants 
who want to process credit card transactions be compliant with a wide variety of security
control requirements. Merchants are assigned different tier levels under PCI DSS, based on 
. 
  A.  Availability
  B.  Redundancy
  C.  Location of their corporate headquarters 
  D.  Number of transactions per year
    82.    The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) requires that all 
merchants who want to process credit card transaction be compliant with a wide variety 
of security control requirements. The different merchant tier requirements will dictate 
. 
  A.  Different types of audits each must conduct 
  B.  Different amounts of audits each must conduct
  C.  Different control sets based on tier level 
  D.  Different cost of controls based on tier level
    83.     are required to use only  cryptographic modules that are 
compliant with Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2. 
  A.  Americans 
  B.  Cloud providers
  C.  Infrastructure as a service (IaaS) providers 
  
D.  U.S. federal agencies       
  
  84.    In performing vendor management and selection, one of the questions you, as the 
potential cloud customer, might ask is, “Does it seem as if this vendor is subject to any
pending acquisitions or mergers?” In gathering data to answer this question, what are you 
trying to avoid?
  
A.  Vendor lockout
  B.  Due care 
  C.  Third-party dependencies 
  
D.  Regulatory oversight


Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1 167
    88.    Which of the following does not 
 typically represent a means for enhanced authentication? t
  
A.  Challenge questions
  
B.  Variable keystrokes
  C.  Out-of-band identity confirmation 
  
D.  Dynamic end-user knowledge
  
  8 9.    Which of the following is  not 
 a common identity federation standard?t
  
A.  WS-Federation 
  
B.  OpenID 
  C.  OISame 
  
D.  Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)
  
  9 0.    Multifactor authentication typically includes two or more of all the following elements
except . 
  A.  What you know
  B.  Who you know
  C.  What you are
  D.  What you have       
    91.    Which of the following aspects of cloud computing can enhance the customer’s business 
continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) efforts? 
  
A.  Multitenancy 
  B.  Pooled resources 
  C.  Virtualization 
  D.  Remote access       
  
  9 2.    Which of the following aspects of cloud computing can enhance the customer’s business 
continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) efforts? 
  A.  Rapid elasticity
  B.  Online collaboration 
  C.  Support of common regulatory frameworks
  D.  Attention to customer service
  
  9 3.    Which of the following aspects of cloud computing can enhance the customer’s business 
continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) efforts? 
  
A.  On-demand self-service 
  B.  Pooled resources 
  C.  Virtualization 
  
D.  The control plane
168 Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1
    94.    What functional process can aid business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) 
efforts? 
  A.  The software development lifecycle (SDLC)
  
B.  Data classification
  C.  Honeypots
  
D.  Identity management
  
  95.    Which common security tool can aid in the overall business continuity and disaster
recovery (BC/DR) process?
  A.  Honeypots
  
B.  Data loss prevention or data leak protection (DLP)
  C.  Security information and event management (SIEM)
  
D.  Firewalls
  
  9 6.    Which of the following aspects of cloud computing can enhance the customer’s business 
continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) efforts? 
  A.  Geographical separation of data centers 
  
B.  Hypervisor security
  C.  Pooled resources
  D.  Multitenancy
    97.    Which of the following is  not 
 typically used as an information source for businesst
continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR) event anticipation?
  A.  Open source news 
  
B.  Business threat intelligence
  C.  Egress monitoring solutions 
  D.  Weather monitoring agencies
  
  98.    Which of the following aspects of the business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR)
process poses a risk to the organization?
  A.  Premature return to normal operations 
  
B.  Event anticipation information 
  C.  Assigning roles for BC/DR activities
  D.  Preparing the continuity-of-operations plan
  
  99.    Which of the following aspects of the business continuity and disaster recovery (BC/DR)
process poses a risk to the organization?
  A.  Threat intelligence gathering 
  B.  Preplacement of response assets
  C.  Budgeting for disaster
  D.  Full testing of the plan
Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1 169
   
100.    In container virtualization, unlike standard virtualization, what is not 
 included?t
  
A.  Hardware emulation
  
B.  OS replication 
  C.  A single kernel
  
D.  The possibility for multiple containers
  
 101.    Which of the following is  not 
 typically a phase in the software development lifecyclet
(SDLC)? 
  A.  Define
  B.  Test
  C.  Develop 
  D.  Sanitization
   102.    An application programming interface (API) gateway can typically offer all of the 
following capabilities  except . 
  
A.  Rate limiting 
  
B.  Access control
  C.  Hardware confirmation
  
D.  Logging
   
103.    Cloud customers in a public cloud managed services environment can install all the
following types of firewalls  except . 
  A.  Provider operated
  
B.  Host-based
  C.  Third party
  
D.  Hardware
   104.    The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol creates a secure communications channel
over public media (such as the Internet). In a typical TLS session, who initiates the
protocol? 
  A.  The server
  
B.  The client
  C.  The certifying authority 
  D.  The Internet service provider (ISP)
   105.    The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol creates a secure communications channel 
over public media (such as the Internet). In a typical TLS session, what is the  usual 
 meansl
for establishing trust between the parties? 
  A.  Out-of-band authentication 
  B.  Multifactor authentication
  C.  Public-key infrastructure (PKI) certificates 
  D.  Preexisting knowledge of each other
170 Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1
   
106.    The Transport Layer Security (TLS) protocol creates a secure communications channel 
over public media (such as the Internet). In a typical TLS session, what form of 
cryptography is used for the session key?
  A.  Symmetric key
  
B.  Asymmetric key pairs
  C.  Hashing 
  
D.  One asymmetric key pair
  
 107.    DevOps is a form of software development that typically joins the software development 
team with . 
  
A.  The production team
  B.  The marketing team
  C.  The security office 
  
D.  Management
   108.    The Agile Manifesto for software development focuses largely on . 
  
A.  Secure build 
  
B.  Thorough documentation 
  C.  Working prototypes 
  D.  Proper planning       
   
109.    When a program’s source code is open to review by the public, what is that software 
called? 
  
A.  Freeware
  
B.  Malware
  C.  Open source
  D.  Shareware
  
 110.    Why is Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP) used for accessing web services instead of 
the Distributed Component Object Model (DCOM) and the Common Object Request 
Broker Architecture (CORBA)? 
  
A.  SOAP provides a much more lightweight solution. 
  B.  SOAP replaces binary messaging with XML.
  C.  SOAP is much more secure. 
  D.  SOAP is newer.
   111.    How does representational state transfer (REST) make web service requests? 
  A.  XML 
  B.  SAML
  C.  URIs 
  D.  TLS
Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1 171
  
 112.    Representational state transfer (REST) outputs often take the form of 
.
  
A.  JavaScript Object Notation (JSON)
  
B.  Certificates
  C.  Database entries
  
D.  WS-Policy
  
 113.    “Sensitive data exposure” is often included on the list of the Open Web Application 
Security Project (OWASP) Top Ten web application vulnerabilities. In addition to 
programming discipline and technological controls, what other approach is important for 
reducing this risk?
  A.  Physical access control to the facility
  
B.  User training
  C.  Crafting sophisticated policies 
  D.  Redundant backup power
  
 114.    During maintenance mode for a given node in a virtualized environment, which of the 
following conditions is  not 
 accurate?t
  
A.  Generation of new instances is prevented.
  
B.  Admin access is prevented.
  C.  Alerting mechanisms are suspended.
  
D.  Events are logged.
  
 115.    How are virtual machines (VMs) moved from active hosts when the host is being put into
maintenance mode? 
  A.  As a snapshotted image file 
  
B.  In encrypted form
  C.  As a live instance 
  
D.  Via portable media
  
 116.    Which of the following is  not 
 a typical mechanism used by intrusion detection systemt
(IDS) and intrusion prevention system (IPS) solutions to detect threats? 
  A.  Signature-based detection
  B.  User input
  C.  Statistical-based detection
  D.  Heuristic detection
  
 117.    When you’re deploying a honeypot/honeynet, it is best to fill it with 
 data. 
  A.  Masked
  B.  Raw
  C.  Encrypted 
  D.  Useless
172 Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1
  
 118.    The cloud provider should be required to make proof of vulnerability scans available to all 
of the following  except . 
  
A.  Regulators
  
B.  The public
  C.  Auditors
  
D.  The cloud customer       
  
 119.    You are the security director for a chain of automotive repair centers across several states. 
Your company uses a cloud software as a service (SaaS) provider for business functions
that cross several of the locations of your facilities, such as ordering of parts, logistics and 
inventory, billing, and marketing.
   The manager at one of your newest locations reports that there is a competing car repair 
company that has a logo that looks almost exactly like the one your company uses. This
intellectual property is likely protected as a .   
  
A.  Copyright 
  
B.  Trademark
  C.  Patent 
  
D.  Trade secret       
   120.    You are the security director for a chain of automotive repair centers across several states. 
Your company uses a cloud software as a service (SaaS) provider for business functions
that cross several of the locations of your facilities, such as ordering of parts, logistics and 
inventory, billing, and marketing.
   The manager at one of your newest locations reports that there is a competing car repair 
company that has a logo that looks almost exactly like the one your company uses. This
conflict will most  likely have to be resolved with what legal method?t
  A.  Breach of contract lawsuit 
  
B.  Criminal prosecution
  C.  Civil suit 
  D.  Military tribunal
  
 121.    You are the security director for a chain of automotive repair centers across several states. 
Your company uses a cloud software as a service (SaaS) provider for business functions
that cross several of the locations of your facilities, such as ordering of parts, logistics and 
inventory, billing, and marketing.
   The manager at one of your newest locations reports that there is a competing car repair 
company that has a logo that looks almost exactly like the one your company uses. What
will  most likely  affect the determination of who has ownership of the logo?   
  A.  Whoever first used the logo
  B.  The jurisdiction where both businesses are using the logo simultaneously
  C.  Whoever first applied for legal protection of the logo 
  D.  Whichever entity has the most customers who recognize the logo       
Chapter 7  ■  Practice Exam 1 173
   
122.    Which Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 18 audit report is 
simply an attestation of audit results?
  A.  Service Organization Control (SOC) 1
  
B.  SOC 2, Type 1
  C.  SOC 2, Type 2 
  
D.  SOC 3
   
123.    Which Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 18 report is 
purposefully designed for public release (for instance, to be posted on a company’s
website)?
  A.  Service Organization Control (SOC) 1
  
B.  SOC 2, Type 1
  C.  SOC 2, Typ e 2 
  D.  SOC 3
   124.    Which of the following countries has a national privacy law that conforms to European
Union (EU) legislation? 
  A.  The United States
  B.  Australia
  C.  Jamaica
  D.  Honduras
   125.    Which of the following countries has a national privacy law that conforms to European
Union (EU) legislation? 
  
A.  Japan 
  B.  Alaska
  C.  Belize 
  D.  Madagascar


Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2 191
  
  84.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. Previous 
releases have shipped with major flaws that were not detected in the testing phase; 
leadership wants to avoid repeating that problem. What tool, technique, or technology 
might you suggest to aid in identifying programming errors? 
  A.  Vulnerability scans
  
B.  Open source review
  C.  Service Organization Control (SOC) audits 
  
D.  Regulatory review
  
  85.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Previous releases have shipped with major flaws that were not detected in the testing 
phase; leadership wants to avoid repeating that problem. It is important to prevent
 from being present during the testing. 
  A.  Senior management
  
B.  Marketing department personnel
  C.  Finance analysts 
  
D.  Programmers who worked on the software
  
  86.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Management is interested in adopting an Agile development style. When you explain what 
impact this will have, you note that  may be decreased by this 
option. 
  A.  Speed of development
  B.  Thoroughness of documentation 
  C.  Availability of prototypes
  
D.  Customer collaboration       
  
  87.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Management is interested in adopting an Agile development style. In order for this to 
happen, the company will have to increase the involvement of . 
  A.  Security personnel
  B.  Budget and finance representatives
  C.  Members of the user group 
  D.  Senior management
192 Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2
    88.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Management is interested in adopting an Agile development style. This will be typified by
which of the following traits?
  A.  Reliance on a concrete plan formulated during the Define phase
  
B.  Rigorous, repeated security testing
  C.  Isolated programming experts for specific functional elements
  
D.  Short, iterative work periods
  
  8 9.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Management is interested in adopting an Agile development style. This will be typified by
which of the following traits?
  A.  Daily meetings 
  B.  A specific shared toolset
  C.  Defined plans that dictate all efforts
  D.  Addressing customer needs with an exhaustive initial contract       
    9 0.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. The 
backend of the software will have the data structured in a way to optimize XML requests.
Which API programming style should programmers most likely concentrate on for the 
frontend interface? 
  A.  Simple Object Access Protocol (SOAP)
  B.  Representational state transfer (REST)
  C.  Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) 
  D.  Data loss prevention or data leak protection (DLP)
    91.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. You
recommend the use of STRIDE threat modeling to assess potential risks associated with
the software. Which of the following is  not 
 addressed by STRIDE?t
  
A.  External parties presenting false credentials
  B.  External parties illicitly modifying information 
  C.  Participants able to deny a transaction 
  
D.  Users unprepared for secure operation by lack of training
Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2 193
    92.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is
interested in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. 
Management has decided that the company will deploy encryption, data loss prevention
or data leak protection (DLP), and digital rights management (DRM) in the cloud
environment for additional protection. When consulting with management, you explain
that these tools will most likely reduce . 
  A.  External threats
  
B.  Internal threats
  C.  Software vulnerabilities 
  
D.  Quality of service
  
  93.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting its testing environment. Your 
company has, and wishes to retain, ISO 27034 certification. For every new application it 
creates, it will also have to create a(n) . 
  A.  Organizational normative framework (ONF)
  
B.  Application normative framework (ANF)
  C.  Intrinsic normative framework (INF) 
  
D.  Service Organization Control (SOC) 3 report       
    94.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting a customer-facing production
environment. Many of your end users are located in the European Union (EU) and will 
provide personal data as they use your software. Your company will not be allowed to use
a cloud data center in which of the following countries?
  A.  Japan 
  B.  Australia
  C.  Belgium 
  
D.  Chile
    95.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting a customer-facing production
environment. Many of your end users are located in the European Union (EU) and will 
provide personal data as they use your software. Your company will not be allowed to use
a cloud data center in which of the following countries?
  A.  Argentina
  B.  Israel
  C.  South Korea
  D.  Switzerland
194 Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2
  
  96.    You are the security manager for a software development firm. Your company is interested 
in using a managed cloud service provider for hosting a customer-facing production
environment. Many of your end users are located in the European Union (EU) and will 
provide personal data as they use your software. Your company will not be allowed to use
a cloud data center in which of the following countries?
  A.  Canada 
  
B.  Singapore 
  C.  France
  
D.  Kenya
  
  97.    Which of the following is not a core principle included in the Organisation for Economic
Cooperation and Development (OECD) privacy guidelines? 
  A.  The individual must have the ability to refrain from sharing their data. 
  
B.  The individual must have the ability to correct errors in their data. 
  C.  The individual must be able to request a purge of their data. 
  
D.  The entity holding the data must secure it.       
  
  98.    Who is the entity identified by personal data? 
  A.  The data owner 
  
B.  The data processor 
  C.  The data custodian 
  
D.  The data subject
    99.    What is the current European Union (EU) privacy legislation that restricts dissemination
of personal data outside the EU?
  A.  The EU Data Directive
  
B.  Privacy Shield
  C.  The General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) 
  
D.  Sarbanes–Oxley (SOX)
   100.    In order for American companies to process personal data belonging to European 
Union (EU) citizens, they must comply with the Privacy Shield program. The program is 
administered by the U.S. Department of Transportation and the . 
  A.  U.S. State Department
  B.  Fish and Wildlife Service
  C.  Federal Trade Commission (FTC) 
  D.  Federal Communication Commission (FCC)
   1 01.    In addition to the Privacy Shield program, what other means can non–European Union
(EU) companies use to be allowed to process personal data of EU citizens? 
  A.  Enhanced security controls
  
B.  Standard contractual clauses
  C.  Increased oversight
  D.  Modified legal regulation
Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2 195
   102.    Which entity is legally responsible for the protection of personal data? 
  
A.  The data subject
  
B.  The data controller
  C.  The data processor 
  
D.  The data steward
   
103.    When a company is first starting and has no defined processes and little documentation,
it can be said to be at level  of the Capability Maturity Model
(CMM).
  A.  1
  
B.  2
  C.  3 
  D.  4
   104.    Which of the following standards addresses a company’s entire security program,
involving all aspects of various security disciplines? 
  A.  ISO 27001
  B.  ISO 27002 
  C.  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-37 
  D.  Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 18
   105.    A cloud provider might only release Service Organization Control (SOC 2), Type 2 reports
to .
  A.  Regulators
  B.  The public
  C.  Potential customers
  D.  Current customers       
   106.    A cloud provider’s Service Organization Control (SOC) 1 report may not be useful to
customers interested in determining the provider’s security posture because the SOC 1
report contains only information about . 
  
A.  Sales projections 
  B.  Financial reporting 
  C.  Previous customer satisfaction
  
D.  Process definition
  
 1 07.    The Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard requires different levels of 
activity based on participants’ .
  
A.  Number of personnel
  B.  Branch locations 
  C.  Number of transactions per year 
  
D.  Preferred banking institutions
196 Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2
   
108.    Which IT product review framework is intended to determine the accuracy of vendor 
claims regarding security functions of the product? 
  A.  Underwriters Laboratories (UL)
  
B.  Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2
  C.  Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standard (DSS) 
  
D.  Common Criteria
   
109.    What is the lowest level of cryptographic security for a cryptographic module, according 
to the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 140-2 standard? 
  A.  1
  
B.  2
  C.  3 
  D.  4
  
 110.    What is the highest level of the Cloud Security Alliance Security, Trust, and Assurance 
Registry (CSA STAR) certification program for cloud service providers?
  A.  1
  B.  2
  C.  3 
  D.  4
   111.    Every cloud service provider that opts to join the Cloud Security Alliance Security,
Trust, and Assurance Registry (CSA STAR) program registry must complete a 
. 
  
A.  Service Organization Control (SOC) 2, Type 2 audit report
  B.  Consensus Assessment Initiative Questionnaire (CAIQ)
  C.  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 800-37 Risk Management 
Framework (RMF) audit
  D.  ISO 27001 information security management system (ISMS) review       
  
 112.    The term  cloud carrier 
 most often refers to . 
  
A.  The cloud provider
  B.  The cloud customer 
  C.  An Internet service provider (ISP)
  
D.  A cloud manager
  
 113.    In a centralized broker identity federation, which entity typically creates and sends the 
Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML) token?
  
A.  The cloud provider
  B.  The Internet service provider (ISP) 
  C.  The broker
  
D.  The cloud customer       
Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2 197
   114.    Which of the following tools incorporates and references the requirements listed in all the 
others? 
  A.  ISO 27001
  
B.  Cloud Security Alliance (CSA) Cloud Controls Matrix (CCM) 
  C.  Federal Risk and Authorization Management Program (FedRAMP) 
  
D.  European Union Agency for Network and Information Security (ENISA)
  
 115.    Which of the following is an example of true multifactor authentication? 
  
A.  Having a login that requires both a password and a personal identification number
(PIN)
  
B.  Using a thumbprint and voice recognition software for access control
  C.  Presenting a credit card along with a Social Security card 
  D.  Signing a personal check
  
 116.    Which of the following is appropriate to include in a service-level agreement (SLA)?
  A.  That the provider deliver excellent uptime
  B.  That the provider host the customer’s data only within specific jurisdictions
  C.  That any conflicts arising from the contract be settled within a particular jurisdiction 
  D.  The specific amount of data that can be uploaded to the cloud environment in any 
given month       
   117.    Which of the following standards is typically used to convey public key information in a 
public-key infrastructure (PKI) arrangement? 
  A.  Security Assertion Markup Language (SAML)
  B.  X.400
  C.  X.509
  D.  802.11
  
 118.    In working with various networking technologies such as Frame Relay, ATM, and 
Ethernet, the capability of the network to provide better service to selected traffic is called
. 
  
A.  QaS 
  B.  ASP
  C.  OLA
  
D.  QoS       
  
 119.    Which type of networking model is optimized for cloud deployments in which the 
underlying storage and IP networks are combined so as to maximize the benefits of a
cloud workload? 
  
A.  Software-defined networking model 
  B.  Enterprise networking model
  C.  Converged networking model
  
D.  Legacy networking model
198 Chapter 8  ■  Practice Exam 2
   120.    Which type of law consists of a body of rules and statutes that define prohibited conduct 
and is set out to protect the safety and well-being of the public? 
  A.  Tort
  
B.  Criminal
  C.  Civil 
  
D.  Contract
  
 121.    What is the primary reason for the use of SSDs in the cloud today? 
  
A.  They are faster than traditional spinning drives.
  B.  They last longer than traditional spinning drives. 
  C.  They are easier to replace than traditional spinning drives.
  D.  They can be replaced quickly.       
   122.    Which of the following are risks associated with virtualization?
  A.  Loss of governance, snapshot and image security, and sprawl
  B.  Public awareness, snapshot and image availability, and sprawl 
  C.  Increased cost, snapshot and image security, and sprawl
  D.  Loss of data
   123.    Which of the following is the core of any system handling all input/output (I/O) 
instructions?
  
A.  Central processing unit (CPU)
  B.  Hypervisor
  C.  User interface 
  D.  Supervising application
   124.    Which of the following is an international organization of network designers and
architects who work together in establishing standards and protocols for the Internet?
  A.  Internet Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA)
  B.  International Organization for Standardization (ISO)/ International Electrotechnical
Commission (IEC) 
  C.  National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) 
  
D.  Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
   125.  is a symmetric block type of cipher used to encrypt information 
and is currently the standard for the U.S. government in protecting sensitive and secret
documents.
  
A.  MD5
  B.  Secure Socket Layer (SSL)
  C.  Blowfish
  
D.  Advanced Encryption Standard (AES)


340 Appendix ■  Answers to Review Questions
    86.  B.  The Agile method reduces the dependence and importance of documentation in favor 
of functioning software versions.
 All the other options are elements that will most likely be increased by transitioning to an 
Agile model. 
    87.  C.  Agile requires interaction between developers and personnel who will use the software. 
 All the other options are not essential roles in Agile development.
    88.  D.  Agile development is usually organized in relatively short iterations of effort, between a
week and a month in duration. 
 Dependence on planning is directly contrary to Agile methodology; option A is incorrect. 
 
In Agile, prototyping is favored over testing; option B is incorrect.
 Agile relies on cooperative development instead of stovepiped expertise; option C is
incorrect. 
    89.  A.  Agile development often involves daily meetings (called Scrums). 
 Agile methodology spurns the use of specifi c tools and concrete planning; options B and C
are incorrect. 
 
Agile also favors customer collaboration and prototyping instead of an elaborate contract 
mechanism; option D is incorrect. 
    90.  A.  SOAP is a web service programming format that requires the use of XML.
 
REST relies more often on uniform resource identifi ers (URIs) than XML; option B is
incorrect. 
 
SAML is a protocol for passing identity assertions over the Internet; option C is incorrect.
 
DLP is a data egress monitoring tool; option D is incorrect.
    91.  D.  STRIDE  does not address user security training. 
 All the other options are aspects addressed by the STRIDE model.
    92.  D.  Every additional security measure might reduce a potential threat but defi nitely will 
reduce productivity and quality of service. There is always an overhead cost of security.
    93.  B.  ISO 27034 compliance requires an ANF for every application within the organization.
 
Under 27034, the organization only needs one ONF, of which every ANF is a subset. 
Option A is incorrect.
 There is no INF. The term is a distractor; option C is incorrect.
 
SOC 3 reports are for the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 
standard, not ISO 27034; option D is incorrect. 
    94.  D.  Chile does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU legislation. All
the other options are countries that do (Belgium is in the EU). 
    95.  C.  South Korea does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU 
legislation. All the other options are countries that do.
Chapter 8: Practice Exam 2 341
    96.  D.  Kenya  does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU legislation. 
All the other options are countries that do (France is in the EU). 
    97.  C.  This is an aspect of the current European Union (EU) legislation, known colloquially 
as “the right to be forgotten”—it is not an aspect of the OECD principles.
 
All the other options are included in the OECD principles. 
    98.  D.  The data subject is the person who is identifi ed by personal data.
 
All the other options are other privacy-data-related roles.
    99.  C.  The GDPR is the current prevailing EU privacy data legislation. It replaced the Data 
Directive. Privacy Shield is the program under which entities in non-adhering countries
can still be allowed to process the personal data of EU citizens. SOX is an American law.
  100.  C.  The FTC is the local U.S. enforcement arm for most Privacy Shield activity.
 All the other options are U.S. government agencies not involved with Privacy Shield. 
  101.  B.  Companies that are not in countries that have laws in accordance with the EU privacy
regulations can instead opt for creating contract language that voluntarily complies with 
the laws. 
 All the other options are incorrect because they do not allow non–European Union com-
panies to process personal data of EU citizens. 
  102.  B.  The data controller is legally liable for protecting any privacy data it has. All the other 
options are other data privacy roles that do not have ultimate legal responsibility.
  103.  A.  Level 1 is the initial level of maturity for a company and its processes; activity may be
performed in an ad hoc manner.
 All the other options are greater maturity levels of the CMM.
  104.  A.  The ISO 27001 standard reviews an organization’s security in terms of an information
security management system (ISMS), which involves a holistic view of the entire security 
program.
 ISO 27002 is a standard for applying controls to the ISMS; option B is incorrect. 
 NIST 800-37 is the Risk Management Framework; option C is incorrect.
 SSAE is an audit standard for fi nancial reporting and the controls within an environment; 
option D is incorrect. 
  
105.  D.  Because of the sensitive nature of the material covered in the SOC 2, Type 2 report, 
a cloud provider might not be willing to share it with any entity that does not have a
fi nancial stake in the cloud service. 
 All the other options are entities that are unlikely to receive a SOC 2, Type 2 report from a 
cloud provider. 
  
106.  B.  The SOC 1 report reviews the accuracy and completeness of an organization’s fi nancial
reporting mechanisms.
 All the other options are incorrect. 
342 Appendix  ■  Answers to Review Questions
  107.  C.  There are four PCI merchant levels, based on the number of transactions an
organization conducts per year.
 All the other options are incorrect answers. 
  
108.  D.  The Common Criteria is a framework for reviewing product security functions, as 
stated by the vendor. 
 The UL is a standards and certifi cation entity concerned with product safety; option A is 
incorrect. 
 FIPS 140-2 is a standard for certifying cryptographic modules; option B is incorrect. 
 PCI DSS is a security standard for credit card merchants and processors; option C is
incorrect. 
  109. A.  The lowest level of the FIPS 140-2 standard is 1. All the other options are incorrect. 
  110.  C.  There are three levels of the CSA STAR program, and 3 is the highest. All the other
options are incorrect. 
  111.  B.  The CAIQ is the CSA’s mechanism for STAR applicants to evaluate their own service. 
 
The SOC reports are part of the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements 
(SSAE) 18 audit standard; option A is incorrect.
 The NIST RMF is only mandated for U.S. federal agencies and not part of the CSA purview; 
option C is incorrect. 
 The ISMS is one of the ISO standards and not part of the CSA purview; option D is
incorrect. 
  112.  C.  Cloud carrier is a term describing the intermediary between cloud customer and
provider that delivers connectivity; this is typically an ISP. 
 Options A and B are other typical cloud computing roles; option D is a not a term with
any meaning in this context.
  113.  C.  In a centralized broker federation, the broker (typically a third party) acting as the 
identity provider, creates the SAML identity assertion tokens and delivers them to the 
relying parties. 
 All the other options are distractors and not entities that are assigned specifi c roles in a 
federation motif. 
  114.  B.  The CCM is a tool for determining control coverage for compliance with a variety of 
standards and regulations. 
 All the other options are standards or regulations.
  115.  D.  The check involves two kinds of security elements: something you have (the check) and
something you are (the biometric control, the signature).
 Option A is two elements of the same kind: something you know. This is incorrect. 
 
Option B is two elements of the same kind: something you are. This is incorrect.
 
Option C is two elements of the same kind: something you have. This is incorrect. 
Chapter 8: Practice Exam 2 343
  116.  D.  SLA elements should be objective, numeric values, for repeated activity.
 Options B and C are useful elements to be included in the contract, but not specifi cally the
SLA. Options B and C are incorrect. 
 Option A is too ambiguous; “excellent” is not a discrete value. Option A is incorrect. 
  117.  C.  Option A is incorrect because software-defi ned networking refers to a networking 
architecture consisting of three layers: application, control, and infrastructure.
 
Enterprise networking is a general term, not specifi cally related to the cloud. Option B is
incorrect. 
 Legacy networking or traditional networking is designed for traditional networks that use
physical devices and components rather than virtual. Option D is incorrect.
  118.  D.  Quality of service (QoS) refers to the capability of a network to provide better service
for certain traffi c regardless of network type or topology.
 The other options contain uppercase and lowercase letters that may or may not be related 
to the cloud. Option D is the only option that answers the question correctly. T he acronym
QoS represents Quality of Service. QoS is used to set priorities for specifi c types of data to
dependably run high-priority applications and traffi c. 
  119.  C.  Optimized for cloud deployments, the converged networking model combines the 
underlying storage and IP networks to maximize the benefi ts of a cloud workload. ss
  120.  B.  Criminal law is set out in rules and statutes created by a government, prohibiting 
certain activities as a means of protecting the safety and well-being of its citizens.
Violations generally consist of both monetary and/or loss of liberty punishments. 
 
Tort law refers the body of laws that provide remedies to individuals who have been
caused harm by unreasonable acts of others. Negligence is the most common type of tort 
lawsuit. Therefore, option A is incorrect.
 Option C is incorrect because civil law pertains to contracts, property, and family law as 
opposed to crimes like murder and theft that are associated with criminal law. 
 
Contracts are agreements between parties to exchange goods and services; Option D is 
incorrect. 
  121.  A.  Solid-state disks (SSDs) are used in cloud computing today because they operate at high 
speeds as compared to traditional spinning drives. 
 Option B is incorrect. SSDs do not necessarily last longer than magnetic drives. 
 
Options C and D are incorrect because SSDs are not noticeably easier or quicker to replace
than traditional drives.
  122.  A.  The primary risks associated with virtualization are loss of governance, snapshot and 
image security, and sprawl. 
 Options B and C are incorrect. Public awareness and increased costs are not risks associ-
ated with virtualization. 
 
Option D is incorrect because the loss of data is not associated with virtualization any-
more than the loss of data is associated with non-virtualization. 
344 Appendix ■  Answers to Review Questions
  
123.  A.  The central processing unit (CPU) is the core of any and all systems, handling all the 
basic I/O instructions as they originate from the software.
 The question focuses on the handling of all input/output (I/O) instructions. Only the CPU
does that. Options B, C, and D function as a result of the CPU handling all of I/O for the
hypervisor, user interface, and supervising application. The CPU is the core of computing 
systems. Options B, C, and D are incorrect.
  124.  D.  The IETF is an international organization of network designers and architects who 
work together in establishing standards and protocols for the Internet. 
 
IANA oversees global IP address allocation among other Internet tasks. IANA does not 
establish standards and protocols for the Internet. Option A is incorrect. 
 Option B is incorrect because the ISO/IEC develops, maintains and promotes standards in
information technology and information communication technology.
 Option C is incorrect because NIST is a federal government standards body in the US.
  125.  D.  The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is currently used to encrypt and protect U.S.
government sensitive and secret data. There are variants, but the most common is 256-bit, 
which is virtually impossible to break today.
 Option A is incorrect because MD5 is a cryptographic hash function used to verify that a 
fi le has not been altered.
 
SSL uses certifi cates to create a secure connection using encryption. Option B is incorrect.
 Blowfi sh is a symmetric-key block cipher that has been replaced by AES encryption. The
U.S. government uses AES and not Blowfi sh. Option C is incorrect

338 Appendix ■  Answers to Review Questions
    71.  C.  This  question is challenging because it requires some abstract thought and all answers 
seem correct at fi rst glance. Intrusion detection systems (IDSs) and intrusion prevention
systems (IPSs) do not secure data; they detect attack activity.
 Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) protects data in transit by reducing 
the risk of DNS poisoning; Transport Layer Security (TLS) and Internet Protocol Security 
(IPSec) reduce the risk of eavesdropping and interception of data. 
    72.  D.  Administrative access may be limited but not prevented. 
 
All the other options are common steps of OS hardening. 
    73.  B.  The baseline confi guration can be used as a template of controls applied throughout the 
environment.
 The BIA and fi nancial records may offer an auditor insight into asset valuation/risk but 
will not provide meaningful data for a control audit. Options A and C are incorrect. 
 The SOC 3 report is only an attestation by an auditor that an audit has taken place; it does 
not provide any useful information about security controls. 
    74.  D.  During maintenance mode, all maintenance activities should still be logged and
tracked. 
 All the other actions are recommended for a cloud node entering maintenance mode. 
    75.  B.  This action is pointless and excessive; the option is a distractor.
 
All the other options are actions the cloud provider should undertake when conducting
scheduled maintenance.
    76.  B.  By defi nition, the tightly coupled cluster has a maximum capacity, whereas the loosely 
coupled cluster does not. 
 The other options do not have a set maximum capacity and are therefore incorrect. 
    77.  C.  OpenStack is an open source project for creating cloud environments regardless of 
hardware brand. 
 Open Web Application Security Project (OWASP) is an open source web application devel-
opment project and does not involve the use of any of the tools mentioned in the question. 
Option A is incorrect.
 
OAuth is a set of standards for identity federation. Option B is incorrect. 
 
Mozilla is a company that produces and administers open source software such as the
Firefox web browser. Option D is incorrect.
    78.  C.  Masking the data (such as replacing the majority of the credit card number with Xs,
leaving only the last four digits in view) should suffi ce for the purpose; it allows the call 
center personnel to determine which card was used in the sale but does not reveal the card 
number to the call center.
 
Encrypting the data in storage but allowing call center personnel to decrypt it creates a
vast opportunity for fraud and abuse; option A is incorrect.
Chapter 8: Practice Exam 2 339
 
Encrypting the data while the call center is trying to make the refund would be counter-
productive; the call center personnel would be unable to determine which card gets the 
refund. Option B is incorrect.
 Relying on the customer to provide the correct card number invites inaccuracy and
exposes the transaction to fraud; option D is not correct.
    79.  C.  Describe is not a common phase in the SDLC; the software should be described in the
Defi ne phase. 
 
All the other options are common phases of the SDLC.
    80.  D.  Business requirements are paramount because they incorporate the elements of all the 
other options as well as additional inputs.
    81.  D.  A DAM can recognize and block malicious SQL traffi c. 
 
A WAF is a Layer 7 fi rewall that understands hostile HTTP traffi c. Option A is incorrect. 
 An API gateway fi lters API traffi c. Option B is incorrect. 
 
DLP solutions are used for egress monitoring, not incoming SQL commands. Option C is
incorrect. 
    82.  B.  PaaS is optimum for software testing as it allows the software to run across multiple
platforms/OSs. 
 All the other options are service/deployment models that are not as optimum for software 
testing as PaaS. 
    83.  C.  Sandboxing allows software to be run in an isolated environment, which can aid in 
error detection.
 
Software testing should not include raw production data, so there is no purpose for using
DLP and DRM solutions; options A and B are incorrect.
 The WAF is used to fi lter web traffi c; in the testing environment, there should not be any 
live traffi c going to the software. Option D is incorrect. 
    84.  B.  Open source review can detect fl aws that a structured testing method might not.
 
Vulnerability scans will only detect known problems, not programming defects that have
not yet been identifi ed; option A is incorrect. 
 
Neither SOC audit nor regulatory review have anything to do with fi nding software fl aws; 
options C and D are incorrect.
    85.  D.  Programmers  have a vested interest in, and a specifi c perspective of, software they 
create. They can unduly infl uence testing outcomes, even unintentionally. It is best to
prevent programmers from attending testing of software they helped create.
 All the other options are personnel who do not need to be present but will not necessarily
cause undue infl uence of the testing process. 
340 Appendix ■  Answers to Review Questions
    86.  B.  The Agile method reduces the dependence and importance of documentation in favor 
of functioning software versions.
 All the other options are elements that will most likely be increased by transitioning to an 
Agile model. 
    87.  C.  Agile requires interaction between developers and personnel who will use the software. 
 All the other options are not essential roles in Agile development.
    88.  D.  Agile development is usually organized in relatively short iterations of effort, between a
week and a month in duration. 
 Dependence on planning is directly contrary to Agile methodology; option A is incorrect. 
 
In Agile, prototyping is favored over testing; option B is incorrect.
 Agile relies on cooperative development instead of stovepiped expertise; option C is
incorrect. 
    89.  A.  Agile development often involves daily meetings (called Scrums). 
 Agile methodology spurns the use of specifi c tools and concrete planning; options B and C
are incorrect. 
 
Agile also favors customer collaboration and prototyping instead of an elaborate contract 
mechanism; option D is incorrect. 
    90.  A.  SOAP is a web service programming format that requires the use of XML.
 
REST relies more often on uniform resource identifi ers (URIs) than XML; option B is
incorrect. 
 
SAML is a protocol for passing identity assertions over the Internet; option C is incorrect.
 
DLP is a data egress monitoring tool; option D is incorrect.
    91.  D.  STRIDE  does not address user security training. 
 All the other options are aspects addressed by the STRIDE model.
    92.  D.  Every additional security measure might reduce a potential threat but defi nitely will 
reduce productivity and quality of service. There is always an overhead cost of security.
    93.  B.  ISO 27034 compliance requires an ANF for every application within the organization.
 
Under 27034, the organization only needs one ONF, of which every ANF is a subset. 
Option A is incorrect.
 There is no INF. The term is a distractor; option C is incorrect.
 
SOC 3 reports are for the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements (SSAE) 
standard, not ISO 27034; option D is incorrect. 
    94.  D.  Chile does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU legislation. All
the other options are countries that do (Belgium is in the EU). 
    95.  C.  South Korea does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU 
legislation. All the other options are countries that do.
Chapter 8: Practice Exam 2 341
    96.  D.  Kenya  does not currently have a federal privacy law that conforms to EU legislation. 
All the other options are countries that do (France is in the EU). 
    97.  C.  This is an aspect of the current European Union (EU) legislation, known colloquially 
as “the right to be forgotten”—it is not an aspect of the OECD principles.
 
All the other options are included in the OECD principles. 
    98.  D.  The data subject is the person who is identifi ed by personal data.
 
All the other options are other privacy-data-related roles.
    99.  C.  The GDPR is the current prevailing EU privacy data legislation. It replaced the Data 
Directive. Privacy Shield is the program under which entities in non-adhering countries
can still be allowed to process the personal data of EU citizens. SOX is an American law.
  100.  C.  The FTC is the local U.S. enforcement arm for most Privacy Shield activity.
 All the other options are U.S. government agencies not involved with Privacy Shield. 
  101.  B.  Companies that are not in countries that have laws in accordance with the EU privacy
regulations can instead opt for creating contract language that voluntarily complies with 
the laws. 
 All the other options are incorrect because they do not allow non–European Union com-
panies to process personal data of EU citizens. 
  102.  B.  The data controller is legally liable for protecting any privacy data it has. All the other 
options are other data privacy roles that do not have ultimate legal responsibility.
  103.  A.  Level 1 is the initial level of maturity for a company and its processes; activity may be
performed in an ad hoc manner.
 All the other options are greater maturity levels of the CMM.
  104.  A.  The ISO 27001 standard reviews an organization’s security in terms of an information
security management system (ISMS), which involves a holistic view of the entire security 
program.
 ISO 27002 is a standard for applying controls to the ISMS; option B is incorrect. 
 NIST 800-37 is the Risk Management Framework; option C is incorrect.
 SSAE is an audit standard for fi nancial reporting and the controls within an environment; 
option D is incorrect. 
  
105.  D.  Because of the sensitive nature of the material covered in the SOC 2, Type 2 report, 
a cloud provider might not be willing to share it with any entity that does not have a
fi nancial stake in the cloud service. 
 All the other options are entities that are unlikely to receive a SOC 2, Type 2 report from a 
cloud provider. 
  
106.  B.  The SOC 1 report reviews the accuracy and completeness of an organization’s fi nancial
reporting mechanisms.
 All the other options are incorrect. 
342 Appendix  ■  Answers to Review Questions
  107.  C.  There are four PCI merchant levels, based on the number of transactions an
organization conducts per year.
 All the other options are incorrect answers. 
  
108.  D.  The Common Criteria is a framework for reviewing product security functions, as 
stated by the vendor. 
 The UL is a standards and certifi cation entity concerned with product safety; option A is 
incorrect. 
 FIPS 140-2 is a standard for certifying cryptographic modules; option B is incorrect. 
 PCI DSS is a security standard for credit card merchants and processors; option C is
incorrect. 
  109. A.  The lowest level of the FIPS 140-2 standard is 1. All the other options are incorrect. 
  110.  C.  There are three levels of the CSA STAR program, and 3 is the highest. All the other
options are incorrect. 
  111.  B.  The CAIQ is the CSA’s mechanism for STAR applicants to evaluate their own service. 
 
The SOC reports are part of the Statement on Standards for Attestation Engagements 
(SSAE) 18 audit standard; option A is incorrect.
 The NIST RMF is only mandated for U.S. federal agencies and not part of the CSA purview; 
option C is incorrect. 
 The ISMS is one of the ISO standards and not part of the CSA purview; option D is
incorrect. 
  112.  C.  Cloud carrier is a term describing the intermediary between cloud customer and
provider that delivers connectivity; this is typically an ISP. 
 Options A and B are other typical cloud computing roles; option D is a not a term with
any meaning in this context.
  113.  C.  In a centralized broker federation, the broker (typically a third party) acting as the 
identity provider, creates the SAML identity assertion tokens and delivers them to the 
relying parties. 
 All the other options are distractors and not entities that are assigned specifi c roles in a 
federation motif. 
  114.  B.  The CCM is a tool for determining control coverage for compliance with a variety of 
standards and regulations. 
 All the other options are standards or regulations.
  115.  D.  The check involves two kinds of security elements: something you have (the check) and
something you are (the biometric control, the signature).
 Option A is two elements of the same kind: something you know. This is incorrect. 
 
Option B is two elements of the same kind: something you are. This is incorrect.
 
Option C is two elements of the same kind: something you have. This is incorrect. 
Chapter 8: Practice Exam 2 343
  116.  D.  SLA elements should be objective, numeric values, for repeated activity.
 Options B and C are useful elements to be included in the contract, but not specifi cally the
SLA. Options B and C are incorrect. 
 Option A is too ambiguous; “excellent” is not a discrete value. Option A is incorrect. 
  117.  C.  Option A is incorrect because software-defi ned networking refers to a networking 
architecture consisting of three layers: application, control, and infrastructure.
 
Enterprise networking is a general term, not specifi cally related to the cloud. Option B is
incorrect. 
 Legacy networking or traditional networking is designed for traditional networks that use
physical devices and components rather than virtual. Option D is incorrect.
  118.  D.  Quality of service (QoS) refers to the capability of a network to provide better service
for certain traffi c regardless of network type or topology.
 The other options contain uppercase and lowercase letters that may or may not be related 
to the cloud. Option D is the only option that answers the question correctly. T he acronym
QoS represents Quality of Service. QoS is used to set priorities for specifi c types of data to
dependably run high-priority applications and traffi c. 
  119.  C.  Optimized for cloud deployments, the converged networking model combines the 
underlying storage and IP networks to maximize the benefi ts of a cloud workload. 
  120.  B.  Criminal law is set out in rules and statutes created by a government, prohibiting 
certain activities as a means of protecting the safety and well-being of its citizens.
Violations generally consist of both monetary and/or loss of liberty punishments. 
 
Tort law refers the body of laws that provide remedies to individuals who have been
caused harm by unreasonable acts of others. Negligence is the most common type of tort 
lawsuit. Therefore, option A is incorrect.
 Option C is incorrect because civil law pertains to contracts, property, and family law as 
opposed to crimes like murder and theft that are associated with criminal law. 
 
Contracts are agreements between parties to exchange goods and services; Option D is 
incorrect. 
  121.  A.  Solid-state disks (SSDs) are used in cloud computing today because they operate at high 
speeds as compared to traditional spinning drives. 
 Option B is incorrect. SSDs do not necessarily last longer than magnetic drives. 
 
Options C and D are incorrect because SSDs are not noticeably easier or quicker to replace
than traditional drives.
  122.  A.  The primary risks associated with virtualization are loss of governance, snapshot and 
image security, and sprawl. 
 Options B and C are incorrect. Public awareness and increased costs are not risks associ-
ated with virtualization. 
 
Option D is incorrect because the loss of data is not associated with virtualization any-
more than the loss of data is associated with non-virtualization. 
344 Appendix ■  Answers to Review Questions
  
123.  A.  The central processing unit (CPU) is the core of any and all systems, handling all the 
basic I/O instructions as they originate from the software.
 The question focuses on the handling of all input/output (I/O) instructions. Only the CPU
does that. Options B, C, and D function as a result of the CPU handling all of I/O for the
hypervisor, user interface, and supervising application. The CPU is the core of computing 
systems. Options B, C, and D are incorrect.
  124.  D.  The IETF is an international organization of network designers and architects who 
work together in establishing standards and protocols for the Internet. 
 
IANA oversees global IP address allocation among other Internet tasks. IANA does not 
establish standards and protocols for the Internet. Option A is incorrect. 
 Option B is incorrect because the ISO/IEC develops, maintains and promotes standards in
information technology and information communication technology.
 Option C is incorrect because NIST is a federal government standards body in the US.
  125.  D.  The Advanced Encryption Standard (AES) is currently used to encrypt and protect U.S.
government sensitive and secret data. There are variants, but the most common is 256-bit, 
which is virtually impossible to break today.
 Option A is incorrect because MD5 is a cryptographic hash function used to verify that a 
fi le has not been altered.
 
SSL uses certifi cates to create a secure connection using encryption. Option B is incorrect.
 Blowfi sh is a symmetric-key block cipher that has been replaced by AES encryption. The